1	one	Nhất	一	One	1	1	In Chinese characters, the number one is laid on its side, unlike the Roman numeral I which stands upright. As you would expect, it is written from left to right.	* As a primitive element, the key-word meaning is discarded, and the single horizontal stroke takes on the meaning of floor or ceiling, depending on its position: if it stands above another primitive, it means ceiling; if below, floor.	One down, 2041 to go. ;).	"To learn this one kanji, I recommend (#2000) this story : Bambi is in a cave, eating a side-dish of salad when trying to learn the kanjis. As he succeed to learn the kanji for ""one"", you get jealous and decide to shoot him with a slingshot. At this moment you hear the police coming, so you hurriedly burn all the proofs into a fire (so you remove the key-words Bambi, slingshot and fire from recommend). So that when the police arrives, the only remaining clue is a single horizontal bar."	1	5	イチ、イツ	ひと-、ひと.つ	一度 (いちど), 一座 (いちざ), 第一 (だいいち), 一 (ひと), 一つ (ひと.つ)
2	two	Nhị	二	two	2	1	Like the Roman numeral II, which reduplicates the numeral I, the kanji for two is a simple reduplication of the horizontal stroke that means one. The order of writing goes from above to below, with the first stroke slightly shorter.		Two lines.	Roman numeral II, written on its side.	1	5	ニ、ジ	ふた、ふた.つ、ふたた.び	二 (ふた), 二つ (ふた.つ)
3	three	Tam	三	three	3	1	"And like the Roman numeral III, which triples the numeral I, the kanji for three simply triples the single horizontal stroke. In writing it, think of ""1 + 2 = 3"" (一 + 二 = 三) in order to keep the middle stroke shorter."		One + two = three.	THREE measurements define the female shape: BUST, WAIST, and HIPS. Waist is the smallest, and for most women the HIPS are wider than the chest.	1	5	サン、ゾウ	み、み.つ、みっ.つ	三 (み), 三つ (み.つ), 三つ (みっ.つ)
4	four	Tứ	四	four, pent in, human legs	5	1	"This character is composed of two primitive elements, mouth and human legs, both of which we will meet in the coming lessons. Assuming that you already knew how to write this kanji, we will pass over the ""story"" connected with it until later. Note how the second stroke is written left-to-right and then top-to-bottom. This is consistent with what we have already seen in the first three numbers and leads us to a general principle that will be helpful when we come to more complicated kanji later on: write north-to-south, west-to-east, northwest-to-southeast."		FOUR year-olds often put their FOOT (human legs) in their MOUTH - but they are too young to realize.	I imagine a giant devouring a human in four bites. First the giant bites off the person´s head, then he bites the torso, then from the waist to the knees, and finally the giant plucks up the remaining portion of the human legs into his mouth. See the fourth bite falling in there?	1	5	シ	よ、よ.つ、よっ.つ、よん	四 (よ), 四つ (よ.つ), 四つ (よっ.つ), 四 (よん)
5	five	Ngũ	五	five	4	1	As with four, we shall postpone learning the primitive elements that make up this character. Note how the general principle we just learned in the preceding frame applies to the writing of the character for five.		三 + two vertical lines = 5.	"This Kanji looks like a ""3"" Kanji with two added vertical lines. 3+2= 5."	1	5	ゴ	いつ、いつ.つ	五 (いつ), 五つ (いつ.つ)
6	six	Lục	六	six, top hat, animal legs	4	1	The primitives here are top hat and animal legs. Once again, we glide over them until later.		Indicating 6 parts of the human body: head, body, 2 arms, 2 legs.	Six-Six-SIX ((666)) Mark of the Beast!! Imagine that dapper old beastly fellow summoning his top hat to himself. See it scamper over to him on a little pair of beastly legs.	1	5	ロク、リク	む、む.つ、むっ.つ、むい	六 (む), 六つ (む.つ), 六つ (むっ.つ)
7	seven	Thất	七	seven, diced	2	1	"Note that the first stroke ""cuts"" through the second. This distinguishes seven from the character for spoon (Frame 476), in which the horizontal stroke stops short."	"* As a primitive, this form takes on the meaning of diced, i.e., ""cut"" into little pieces, consistent both with the way the character is written and with its association with the kanji for cut to be learned in a later lesson (Frame 89)."	This kanji is our good old seven, turned upside down.	I wrote it upside down so I crossed it out.	1	5	シチ	なな、なな.つ、なの	七 (なな), 七つ (なな.つ)
8	eight	Bát	八	eight	2	1	"Just as the Arabic numeral ""8"" is composed of a small circle followed by a larger one, so the kanji for eight is composed of a short line followed by a longer line, slanting towards it but not touching it. And just as the ""lazy 8"" is the mathematical symbol for ""infinity,"" so the expanse opened up below these two strokes is associated by the Japanese with the sense of an infinite expanse or something ""all-encompassing."""		"Hachi (eight) begins with the sound of the katakana ""ha"", and it´s approximately the same character."	The valcano hasn´t erupted for 8 years.	1	5	ハチ	や、や.つ、やっ.つ、よう	八 (や), 八つ (や.つ), 八つ (やっ.つ)
9	nine	Cửu	九	nine, baseball	2	1	If you take care to remember the stroke order of this kanji, you will not have trouble later keeping it distinct from the kanji for power (Frame 922).	* As a primitive, we shall use this kanji to mean baseball team or simply baseball. The meaning, of course, is derived from the nine players who make up a team.	Kinda of looks like the kanji of 1　一 with the kanji of 8 八added. So think of it as 　一＋八＝九.	Warning - naughty reminder A woman in the doggie style position, waiting for my NINE inches.	1	5	キュウ、ク	ここの、ここの.つ	九百 (きゅうひゃく), 三拝九拝 (さんはいきゅうはい), 九 (ここの), 九つ (ここの.つ)
10	ten	Thập	十	ten, needle	2	1	Turn this character 45 degrees either way and you have the x used for the Roman numeral ten.	* As a primitive, this character sometimes keeps its meaning of ten and sometimes signifies needle, this latter derived from the kanji for needle (Frame 292). Since the primitive is used in the kanji itself, there is no need to worry about confusing the two. In fact, we shall be following this procedure regularly.	Two needles crossing marks the spot, or you can use the Roman character for ten (rotated 45 degrees).	I scared away ten vampires with a single cross!	1	5	ジュウ、ジッ、ジュッ	とお、と	十字架 (じゅうじか), 十文字 (じゅうもんじ), 十 (と), 十 (とお)
11	mouth	Khẩu	口	mouth	3	1	Like several of the first characters we shall learn, the kanji for mouth is a clear pictograph. Since there are no circular shapes in the kanji, the square must be used to depict the circle.	* As a primitive, this form also means mouth. Any of the range of possible images that the word suggests - an opening or entrance to a cave, a river, a bottle, or even the largest hole in your head - can be used for the primitive meaning.	Looks like a huge open mouth.	"Momma used to say: ""Keep your trap shut!"" This thing is shaped like a trap door."	1	4	コウ、ク	くち	口述 (こうじゅつ), 人口 (じんこう), 開口 (かいこう), 口 (くち)
12	day	Nhật	日	day, sun	4	1	"This kanji is intended to be a pictograph of the sun. Recalling what we said in the previous frame about round forms, it is easy to detect the circle and the big smile that characterize our simplest drawings of the sun - like those yellow badges with the words, ""Have a nice day!"""	"* Used as a primitive, this kanji can mean sun or day or a tongue wagging in the mouth. This latter meaning, incidentally, derives from an old character outside the standard list meaning something like ""sayeth"" and written almost exactly the same, except that the stroke in the middle does not touch the right side (Frame 620)."	Open the window, new day.	Picture two halves of a 24-hr period: Day & Night.	1	5	ニチ、ジツ	ひ、-び、-か	日時 (にちじ), 日光 (にっこう), 毎日 (まいにち), 日 (か), 日 (ひ)
13	month	Nguyệt	月	month, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	4	1	"This character is actually a picture of the moon, with the two horizontal lines representing the left eye and mouth of the mythical ""man in the moon."" (Actually, the Japanese see a hare in the moon, but it is a little farfetched to find one in the kanji.) And one month, of course, is one cycle of the moon."	* As a primitive element, this character can take on the sense of moon, flesh, or part of the body. The reasons for the latter two meanings will be explained in a later chapter.	A month is longer than a day.	"Am I the only one who sees this as someone sticking their ass in the air ""mooning"" someone (two cheeks of the butt and the legs coming off of it)? The Moon meaning connects well to the meaning of month, considering that months were traditionally measured by the phases of the moon. Also, the mooning ""ass"" part of it connects well to Hesig´s seemingly unconnected ""flesh"" or ""part of the body"" meaning (when used in primitive form)."	1	5	ゲツ、ガツ	つき	月曜 (げつよう), 明月 (めいげつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 月 (つき)
14	rice field	Điền	田	rice field, brains	5	1	Another pictograph, this kanji looks like a bird's-eye view of a rice field divided into four plots. Be careful when writing this character to get the order of the strokes correct. You will find that it follows perfectly the principle stated in frame 4.	* When used as a primitive element, the meaning of rice field is most common, but now and again it will take the meaning of brains from the fact that it looks a bit like that tangle of gray matter nestled under our skulls.	A rice field divided into four parts.	Ten people use their mouths to eat the yield of the rice fields.	1	4	デン	た	田 (た)
15	eye	Mục (Mục tiêu, mục đích)	目	eye	5	1	Here again, if we round out the corners of this kanji and curve the middle strokes upwards and downwards respectively, we get something resembling an eye.	* As a primitive, the kanji keeps its sense of eye, or more specifically, an eyeball. When placed in the surroundings of a complex kanji, the primitive will sometimes be turned on its side.	There are 3 sections. Imagine the outer two being the whites of your eye. The middle is the pupil. Fill it in with imaginary color.	目_目.	1	4	モク、ボク	め、-め、ま-	目的 (もくてき), 目前 (もくぜん), 項目 (こうもく), 目 (め)
16	old	Cổ	古	old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	5	2	"The primitive elements that compose this character are ten and mouth, but you may find it easier to remember it as a pictograph of a tombstone with a cross on top. Just think back to one of those graveyards you have visited, or better still, used to play in as a child, with old inscriptions on the tombstones. This departure from the primitive elements in favor of a pictograph will take place now and again at these early stages, and almost never after that. So you need not worry about cluttering up your memory with too many character ""drawings."""	* Used as a primitive element, this kanji keeps its key-word sense of old, but care should be taken to make that abstract notion as graphic as possible.	Tombstone and cross on an old man´s grave.	You get OLD fast if you have ten open mouths to feed.	2	4	コ	ふる.い、ふる-、-ふる.す	古い (ふる.い), 古す (ふる.す)
17	I	Ngô	吾	I, five, mouth	7	2	"There are actually a number of kanji for the word I, but the others tend to be more specific than this one. The key word here should be taken in the general psychological sense of the ""perceiving subject."" Now the one place in our bodies that all five senses are concentrated in is the head, which has no less than five mouths: 2 nostrils, 2 ears, and 1 mouth. Hence, five mouths = I."		I eat five times at day.	I have 5 senses.	Names		ゴ	われ、わが-、あ-	
18	risk	Mao (Mao hiểm (mạo hiểm))	冒	risk, sun, day, eye	9	2	Remember when you were young and your mother told you never to look directly into the sun for fear you might burn out your eyes? Probably you were foolish enough to risk a quick glance once or twice; but just as probably, you passed that bit of folk wisdom on to someone else as you grew older. Here, too, the kanji that has a sun above and an eye right below looking up at it has the meaning of risk (see frame 12).		Don´t look at the sun directly with your eyes, it´s risky!	You´ll risk your eyesight if you look up at the sun.	JH	1	ボウ	おか.す	冒す (おか.す)
19	companion	Bằng (Bằng hữu)	朋	companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2	8	2	"The first companion that God made, as the Bible story goes, was Eve. Upon seeing her, Adam exclaimed, ""Flesh of my flesh!"" And that is precisely what this character says in so many strokes."		My companion and I are like two moons side by side.	Under the twin moons of Tatooine, Luke had no COMPANION.	Names	1	ホウ	とも	
20	bright	Minh	明	bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	8	2	Among nature's bright lights, there are two that the biblical myth has God set in the sky: the sun to rule over the day and the moon to rule the night. Each of them has come to represent one of the common connotations of this key word: the sun, the bright insight of the clear thinker, and the moon, the bright intuition of the poet and the seer (see frame 13).		The sun makes the moon bright.	The sun and the moon are brightest objects in the day and night, respectively.	2	4	メイ、ミョウ、ミン	あ.かり、あか.るい、あか.るむ、あか.らむ、あき.らか、あ.ける、-あ.け、あ.く、あ.くる、あ.かす	明暗 (めいあん), 説明 (せつめい), 鮮明 (せんめい), 明かす (あ.かす), 明かり (あ.かり), 明く (あ.く), 明くる (あ.くる), 明ける (あ.ける), 明らむ (あか.らむ), 明るい (あか.るい), 明るむ (あか.るむ), 明らか (あき.らか)
21	chant	XƯỚNG (hát trước để cho người ta họa)	唱	chant, mouth, prosperous, sun, day, tongue wagging, sun2, day2, tongue wagging2		2	This one is easy! You have one mouth making no noise (the choirmaster) and two mouths with wagging tongues (the minimum for a chorus). So think of the key word, chant, as monastery singing and the kanji is yours forever (see frame 11).		Someone chanting with their mouth open for two consecutive days.	Chants from our mouths are meant to reach the sun and the stars. Stars are just suns just further away so they seem smaller.	4	1	ショウ	とな.える	唱える (とな.える)
22	sparkle	Tinh (Kết tinh..)	晶	sparkle, day, sun, day3, sun3	12	2	"What else can the word sparkle suggest if not a diamond? And if you've ever held a diamond up to the light, you will have noticed how every facet of it becomes like a miniature sun. This kanji is a picture of a tiny sun in three places (that is, ""everywhere""), to give the sense of something that sparkles on all sides. Just like a diamond. In writing the primitive elements three times, note again how the rule for writing given in frame 4 holds true not only for the strokes in each individual element but also for the disposition of the elements in the character as a whole."		A diamond sparkles as brightly as three suns.	Sparkle is a forest (#197) of suns!	JH	1	ショウ		
23	goods	Phẩm (Phẩm vật, phế phẩm)	品	goods, mouth, mouth3	9	2	"As in the character for sparkle, the triplication of a single element in this character indicates ""everywhere"" or ""heaps of."" When we think of goods in modern industrial society, we think of what has been mass-produced - that is to say, produced for the ""masses"" of open mouths waiting like fledglings in a nest to ""consume"" whatever comes their way."		Three boxes of goods are devoured by the hungry mouths of waiting consumers.	Three hungry mouths waiting for the goods to come.	3	4	ヒン、ホン	しな	品 (しな)
24	spine	Lữ, lã	呂	spine, mouth, drop, mouth2	7	2	This character is rather like a picture of two of the vertebrae in the spine linked by a single stroke.		Spine connects head and body.	The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face.	JH	1	ロ、リョ	せぼね	
25	prosperous	Xương (phồn xương (thịnh vượng))	昌	prosperous, sun, day, sun2, day2	8	2	"What we mentioned in the previous two frames about 3 of something meaning ""everywhere"" or ""heaps of"" was not meant to be taken lightly. In this kanji we see two suns, one atop the other, which, if we are not careful, is easily confused in memory with the three suns of sparkle. Focus on the number this way: since we speak of prosperous times as sunny, what could be more prosperous than a sky with two suns in it? Just be sure to actually SEE them there."		If you work from Sun UP to Sun DOWN you will be prosperous.	I kept getting this mixed up with meanings like ´fortune´, so here is a fool proof story! Remember the Vulcan salute from ´Star Trek´ (a fiction of the sci-fi genre in which heavenly bodies such as SUNS play a huge role) used with the phrase ´live long and PROSPER´? If that´s not enough of a visual reminder, the Vulcan salute shows the fingers parted in to 2 sets of 2, and visually kind of looks like this kanji if you think about it.	Names	1	ショウ	さかん	
26	early	Tảo (tảo hôn)	早	early, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle	6	2	This kanji is actually a picture of the first flower of the day, which we shall, in defiance of botanical science, call the sunflower, since it begins with the element for sun and is held upon a stem with leaves (the pictographic representation of the final two strokes). This time, however, we shall ignore the pictograph and imagine sunflowers with needles for stems, which can be plucked and used to darn your socks. The sense of early is easily remembered if one thinks of the sunflower as the early riser in the garden, because the sun, showing favoritism towards its namesake, shines on it before all the others (see frame 10).	* As a primitive element, this kanji takes the meaning of sunflower, which was used to make the abstract key word early more graphic.	The sun up is early, well before ten.	An early sun-flower looks like a miniature sun perched on a needlelike stems.	1	4	ソウ、サッ	はや.い、はや、はや-、はや.まる、はや.める、さ-	早期 (そうき), 早晩 (そうばん), 早々に (そうそうに), 早い (はや.い), 早まる (はや.まる), 早める (はや.める)
27	rising sun	Húc (bóng sáng như mặt trời mọc)	旭	rising sun, nine, baseball, sun, day	6	2	This character is a sort of nickname for the Japanese flag with its well-known emblem of the rising sun. If you can picture two seams running down that great red sun, and then imagine it sitting on a baseball bat for a flagpole, you have a slightly irreverent - but not altogether inaccurate - picture of how the sport has caught on in the Land of the Rising Sun.		Nine planets revolve around our rising sun.	9am carries with it the rising sun.	Names	1	キョク	あさひ	
28	generation	Thế (Thế đại, thế kỉ, hậu thế)	世	generation, ten, twenty	5	2	"We generally consider one generation as a period of thirty (or ten plus ten plus ten) years. If you look at this kanji in its completed form - not in its stroke order - you will see three tens. When writing it, think of the lower horizontal lines as ""addition"" lines written under numbers to add them up. Thus: ten ""plus"" ten ""plus"" ten = thirty. Actually, it's a lot easier doing it with a pencil than reading it in a book."		3 tens = generation.	"They SAY a generation is ten+ten+ten years, with the big first ten providing a grounding, and the next ten providing a little more grounding for the final ten. But I wish the next generation didn´t always SAY ""yo!"". (ON reading is SEI, KUN reading is yo)."	3	4	セイ、セ、ソウ	よ、さんじゅう	世紀 (せいき), 時世 (じせい), 処世 (しょせい), 世 (よ)
29	stomach	Vị (khẩu vị, thượng vị)	胃	stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	9	2	"You will need to refer back to frames 13 and 14 here for the special meaning of the two primitive elements that make up this character: flesh (part of the body) and brain. What the kanji says, if you look at it, is that the part of the body that keeps the brain in working order is the stomach. To keep the elements in proper order, when you write this kanji think of the brain as being ""held up"" by the flesh."		The rice field is harvested once a month to get food for our stomach.	The stomach is the part of the body that digests food (which, in Japan, is mainly rice).	4	2	イ		
30	daybreak	Đán (Nguyên đán)	旦	nightbreak, sun, one, floor	5	2	"While we normally refer to the start of the day as ""daybreak,"" Japanese commonly refers to it as the ""opening up of night"" into day. Hence the choice of this rather odd key word, nightbreak. The single stroke at the bottom represents the floor (have a peek again at frame 1) or the horizon over which the sun is poking its head"		A nightbreak happens when the sun rises over the horizon (floor).	"It may be easier to think of the keyword ""DAYBREAK"" or ""MORNING"" for this kanji (other kanji dictionaries do). Then the mnemonic phrase ""SUN rising over the HORIZON"" works better. It is an infrequent kanji, but can be found in: 旦夕　（たんせき） morning and evening, or 元旦　（がんたん） New Year´s Day."	JH	1	タン、ダン	あき.らか、あきら、ただし、あさ、あした	
31	gall bladder	Đảm (đảm thạch chứng (bệnh sỏi mật))	胆	gallbladder, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor	9	2	"The pieces in this character should be easily recognizable: on the left, the element for part of the body, and on the right, the character for nightbreak, which we have just met. What all of this has to do with the gall bladder is not immediately clear. But all we need to do is give a slight twist to the traditional biblical advice about not letting the sun set on your anger (which ancient medicine associated with the choler or bile that the gall bladder is supposed to filter out), and change it to ""not letting the night break on your anger"" (or your gall) - and the work of remembering the kanji is done. And the improvement is not a bad piece of advice in its own right, since anger, like so many other things, can often be calmed by letting the sun set on it and then ""sleeping it off."""		All the month long I have to start working at nightbreak. This really activates my gall bladder (=I get angry).	The moon has a lot of gall sticking around after sunrise.	JH	1	タン	きも	
32	span	Tuyên (ngang qua)	亘	span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor	6	2	"""Sunrise, sunset, sunrise, sunset..."" goes the song of the Fiddler on the Roof. You can almost see the journey of the sun as it moves from one horizon (the floor) to its noonday heights in the sky overhead (ceiling) and then disappears over the other horizon - day after day, marking the span of our lives."		The sun spans from horizon to horizon in a day.	The span of the day is the time between the sun goes up and comes down.	Names	1	コウ、カン	わた.る、もと.める	
33	concave	Ao (ao diện kính (thấu kính lõm))	凹	concave	5	2	"You couldn't have asked for a better key word for this kanji! Just have a look at it: a perfect image of a concave lens (remembering, of course, that the kanji square off rounded things), complete with its own little ""cave."" Now all you have to do is learn how to write it."		"The letter ""U"" is concavely written."	Concave has a concave shape.	JH	1	オウ	くぼ.む、へこ.む、ぼこ	
34	convex	Đột (đột ao, đột kính)	凸	convex	5	2	Maybe this helps you see how the Japanese have no trouble keeping convex distinct from concave. Note the odd feeling of the third stroke. If it doesn't feel all that strange now, by the time you are done with this book, it will. There are very few times you will have to write it.		When I get vexed, I give people the middle finger.	Convex has a convex shape.	JH	1	トツ	でこ	
35	olden times	Cựu	旧	olden times, stick, sun, day	5	3	"A walking stick is needed for days of olden times, since days, too, get old - at least insofar as we refer to them as the ""good old days."" The main thing here is to think of ""good old days"" when you hear the key word olden times. The rest will take care of itself."		Age 18 = olden times.	The old man with a walking stick kept talking of olden times all day long.	5	2	キュウ	ふる.い、もと	
36	oneself	Tự (tự thú, tự lập, tự vệ)	自	oneself, drop, eye	6	3	You can think of this kanji as a stylized pictograph of the nose, that little drop that Mother Nature set between your eyes. The Japanese refer to themselves by pointing a finger at their nose - giving us an easy way to remember the kanji for oneself.	* The same meaning of oneself can be kept when this kanji is used as a primitive element, but you will generally find it better to give it the meaning of nose or nostrils, both because it accords with the story above and because it is the first part of the kanji for nose (Frame 733).	Faced with his clone, our hero valiantly cut a mark on his forehead right above his eye so that his comrades could tell his true oneself from the enemy.	To use an eyedropper by oneself, aim from above to put a drop into the eye.	2	4	ジ、シ	みずか.ら、おの.ずから、おの.ずと	自分 (じぶん), 自由 (じゆう), 各自 (かくじ), 自ら (みずか.ら)
37	white	Bạch (minh bạch)	白	white, drop, sun, day	5	3	The color white is a mixture of all the primary colors, both for pigments and for light, as we see when a prism breaks up the rays of the sun. Hence, a single drop of sun spells white.	* As a primitive, this character can either retain its meaning of white or take the more graphic meaning of a white bird or dove. This latter stems from the fact that it appears at the top of the kanji for bird, which we shall get to later (Frame 2091).	A white ray is a drop of sun.	Even a small drop (´) of the sun (日) would make you see nothing but white.	1	5	ハク、ビャク	しろ、しら-、しろ.い	白髪 (しらが), 紅白 (こうはく), 明白 (めいはく), 白 (しろ), 白い (しろ.い)
38	hundred	Bách (bách khoa, bách chiến bách thắng)	百	hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove	6	3	"The Japanese refer to a person's 99th birthday as a ""white year"" because white is the kanji you are left with if you subtract one from a hundred."		100 turned sideways. {sort of the same as what ashoksaraf said}.	That dirty ceiling was painted WHITE a hundred times!	1	5	ヒャク、ビャク	もも	
39	in	Trung (Trong. Như đối với các tỉnh ngoài thì gọi chỗ kinh đô là trung ương, v.v.)	中	in, stick, mouth	4	3	The elements here are a walking stick and a mouth. Remember the trouble your mother had getting medicine in your mouth? Chances are it crossed her mind more than once to grab something handy, like your grandfather's walking stick, to pry open your jaws while she performed her duty. Keep the image of getting something in from the outside, and the otherwise abstract sense of this key word should be a lot easier than trying to spoon castor oil into a baby's mouth.		Pocky goes in the mouth. Or My GF lets me come in her mouth (pictogram).	My GF lets me come in her mouth (pictogram).	1	5	チュウ	なか、うち、あた.る	中 (なか)
40	thousand	Thiên (Thiên niên)	千	thousand, drop, ten, needle	3	3	This kanji is almost too simple to pull apart, but for the sake of practice, have a look at the drop above and the ten below. Now put the elements together by thinking of squeezing two more zeros out of an eyedropper alongside the number ten to make it a thousand.		It takes many drops of ten to get to a thousand.	One T = one thousand.	1	5	セン	ち	千 (ち)
41	tongue	Thiệt (ác thiệt (kẻ xấu miệng, ngồi lê mách lẻo))	舌	tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth	6	3	"The primitive for mouth and the character for thousand naturally form the idea of tongue if one thinks of a thousand mouths able to speak the same language, or as we say, ""sharing a common tongue."" It is easy to see the connection between the idiom and the kanji if you take its image literally: a single tongue being passed around from mouth to mouth."		Kissing a thousand mouths eventually gets you some tongue.	What is in a mouth that permits it to speak a thousand things? Yes, a tongue.	5	1	ゼツ	した	舌 (した)
42	measuring box	Thăng (đơn vị đo đạc)	升	measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle	4	3	This is the character for the little wooden box that the Japanese use for measuring things, as well as for drinking saké out of. Simply imagine the outside as spiked with a thousand sharp needles, and the quaint little measuring box becomes a drinker's nightmare! Be very careful when you write this character not to confuse it with the writing of thousand. The reason for the difference gives us a chance to clarify another general principle of writing that supersedes the one we mentioned in frame 4: when a single stroke runs vertically through the middle of a character, it is written last.		It is a thousand or ten? I need my measuring box.	I can fit a thousand needles into my measuring box, but only if I bend the thousand.	JH	1	ショウ	ます	升 (ます)
43	rise up	Thăng (thăng tiến, thăng cấp)	昇	rise up, sun, day, measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle	8	3	"Our image here is made up of two primitive elements: a sun and a measuring box. Just as the sun can be seen rising up in the morning from - where else - the Land of the Rising Sun, this kanji has the sun rising up out of a Japanese measuring box - the ""measuring box of the rising-up sun."""		"This kanji does not mean ""get up"" or ""awake."" It means rising, like the rising of a salary, or a promotion. STORY: You know that your salary has RISEN UP when your MEASURING BOX has enough dollar bills in it to reach the SUN."	We Measure the Sun to decide when we should Rise Up out of bed.	JH	2	ショウ	のぼ.る	昇る (のぼ.る)
44	round	Hoàn (viên tròn)	丸	round, drop, nine, baseball	3	3	"We speak of ""round numbers,"" or ""rounding a number off,"" meaning to add an insignificant amount to bring it to the nearest 10. For instance, if you add just a wee bit, the tiniest drop, to nine, you end up with a round number."	* As a primitive, this element takes the meaning of a fat man. Think of a grotesquely fat man whose paunch so covers the plate that he is always getting hit by the pitch. Hence a round baseball player becomes a fat man.	Nine plus a drop rounds it off to ten!	"Watch out for plump (#120). Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : rotund. Rotund is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with circle (#1811). A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn´t yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the Laughing Buddha is often depicted as a rotund, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude)."	2	2	ガン	まる、まる.める、まる.い	丸 (まる), 丸い (まる.い), 丸める (まる.める)
45	measurement	Thốn (tấc, mười phân là một tấc)	寸	measurement, glue, drop, ten with a hook	3	3	This kanji actually stood for a small measurement used prior to the metric system, a bit over an inch in length, and from there acquired the sense of measurement. In the old system, it was one-tenth of a shaku (whose kanji we shall meet in frame 1151). The picture, appropriately, represents one drop of a ten (with a hook!).	* As a primitive, we shall use this to mean glue or glued to. There is no need to devise a story to remember this, since the primitive will appear so often you would have to struggle hard NOT to remember it.	The decimal system uses drops of ten as a measurement.	Glue two sticks together to make the best measurement. (I always remember the primitive, but never the original keyword.).	6	1	スン		
47	specialty	Chuyên (chuyên môn, chuyên nghiệp, chuyên dụng)	専	specialty, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue	9	3	"Ten . . . rice fields . . . glue. That is how one would read the primitive elements of this kanji from top to bottom. Now if we make a simple sentence out of these elements, we get: ""Ten rice fields glued together."" A specialty, of course, refers to one's special ""field"" of endeavor or competence. In fact, few people remain content with a single specialty and usually extend themselves in other fields as well. This is how we come to get the picture of ten fields glued together to represent a specialty."		After you have chosen your 10 fields of study, measure how good you are at each to find out your specialty.	10 brains glued together allows you to specialize in any specialty that you want. Imagine each brain having its own specialty.	6	2	セン	もっぱ.ら	専ら (もっぱ.ら)
48	Dr.	Bác (bác học, bác sĩ)	博	Dr., ten, needle, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue	12	3	At the left we have the needle; at the right, the kanji for specialty, plus an extra drop at the top. Think of a Dr. who is a specialist with a needle (an acupuncturist) and let the drop at the top represent the period at the end of Dr. In principle we are trying to avoid this kind of device, which plays on abstract grammatical conventions; but I think you will agree, after you have had occasion to use the right side of this kanji in forming other kanji, that the exception is merited in this case.	* The primitive form of this kanji eliminates the needle on the left and gets the meaning of an acupuncturist.	Ten specialties grants you the title of Dr. with a dot.	"Watch for doctor (#1694), the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb´s"" if you´re into programming."	4	1	ハク、バク		博識 (はくしき), 博覧 (はくらん), 博士号 (はくしごう)
49	fortune-telling	Chiếm, chiêm (chiêm tinh)	占	fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, divining rod, mouth	5	3	This is one of those kanji that is a real joy of simplicity: a divining rod with a mouth - which translate directly into fortune-telling. Note how the movement from top to bottom (the movement in which the kanji are written) is also the order of the elements which make up our story and of the key word itself: first divining rod, then mouth. This will not always be possible, but where it is, memory has almost no work at all to do.		Fortune-telling: using a mouth as a divining rod.	"A great number of people who do fortune-telling are ""almost old""."	JH	2	セン	し.める、うらな.う	占う (うらな.う), 占める (し.める)
50	above	Thượng (thượng vị, thượng lưu)	上	above, magic wand, augury, divining rod, one, floor	3	3	"The two directions, above and below, are usually pointed at with the finger. But the characters do not follow that custom, so we have to choose something else, easily remembered. The primitives show a magic wand standing above a floor - ""magically,"" you might say. Anyway, go right on to the next frame, since the two belong together and are best remembered as a unit, just as the words above and below suggest each other."		A magic wand standing on above the floor.	Above all else, be grounded if you are going to practice augury (#2103)卜. You could turn yourself into a トoad...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ジョウ　以上　いじょう(above)　　　　ショウ　上人　しょうにん(saint).	1	5	ジョウ、ショウ、シャン	うえ、-うえ、うわ-、かみ、あ.げる、-あ.げる、あ.がる、-あ.がる、あ.がり、-あ.がり、のぼ.る、のぼ.り、のぼ.せる、のぼ.す、よ.す	上旬 (じょうじゅん), 上昇 (じょうしょう), 地上 (ちじょう), 上がる (あ.がる), 上げる (あ.げる), 上 (うえ), 上 (かみ), 上す (のぼ.す), 上せる (のぼ.せる), 上る (のぼ.る)
51	below	Hạ	下	below, one, ceiling, magic wand, augury, divining rod	3	3	Here we see our famous miraculous magic wand hanging, all on its own, below the ceiling, as you probably already guessed would happen. In addition to giving us two new kanji, the two shapes given in this and the preceding frame also serve to fix the use of the primitives for ceiling and floor, by drawing our attention successively to the line standing above and below the primitive element to which it is related.		Roots are below the ground.	A magic wand hanging below the ceiling.	1	5	カ、ゲ	した、しも、もと、さ.げる、さ.がる、くだ.る、くだ.り、くだ.す、-くだ.す、くだ.さる、お.ろす、お.りる	下流 (かりゅう), 下降 (かこう), 落下 (らっか), 下りる (お.りる), 下ろす (お.ろす), 下さる (くだ.さる), 下す (くだ.す), 下る (くだ.る), 下がる (さ.がる), 下げる (さ.げる), 下 (した), 下 (しも), 下 (もと)
52	eminent	Trác (trác tuyệt (tài trí tuyệt trần))	卓	eminent, magic wand, augury, divinging rod, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle	8	3	The word eminent suggests a famous or well-known person. So all you need to do - given the primitives of a magic wand and a sunflower - is to think of the world's most eminent magician as one who uses a sunflower for a magic wand (like a flower-child who goes around turning the world into peace and love).		The most eminent magician is he who learned to use his magic wand early in life.	The eminent sunflower is the one that stands above the others.	JH	1	タク		
53	morning	Triều (mỗi triều (hàng sáng))	朝	morning, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2	12	3	On the right we see the moon fading off into the first light of morning, and to the left, the mist that falls to give nature a shower to prepare it for the coming heat. If you can think of the moon tilting over to spill mist on your garden, you should have no trouble remembering which of all the elements in this story are to serve as primitives for constructing the character.		"Morning has come ""ten"" hours ""early""!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky!"	There is mist as the moon fades away in the morning.	2	4	チョウ	あさ	朝 (あさ)
55	only	Chỉ	只	only, mouth, animal legs, eight	5	4	"When we run across abstract key words like this one, the best way to get an image it to recall some common but suggestive phrase in which the word appears. For instance, we can think of the expression ""it's the only one of its kind."" Then we imagine a barker at a side-show advertising some strange pac-manlike creature he has inside his tent, with only a gigantic mouth and two wee animal legs."		My girlfriend insists that the only thing I want from her is what´s between her legs and her mouth.. She´s drawn me this pictograph to demonstrate. It´s a mouth and two legs spread apart.. I explain that I also love her breasts, and then she smacks me in the face. I´ll never understand women.. (I keep failing this kanji, hopefully this silly story will help me!).	Imagine an animal with CHỈ a mouth and legs.	Names	1	シ	ただ	
56	shellfish	BỐI (Con sò, ngày xưa dùng vỏ sò làm tiền tiêu, cho nên những chữ nói về của cải phần nhiều có chữ bối ở bên. Những đồ quý báu gọi là bảo bối)	貝	shellfish, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	7	4	To remember the primitive elements that make up this kanji, an eye and animal legs, you might be tempted to think of it as a pictograph of a shellfish with its ridged shell at the top and two little legs sticking out of the bottom. But that might not help you recall later just how many ridges to put on the shell. Better to imagine a freakish shellfish with a single, gigantic eye roaming the beaches on its slender little legs, scaring the wits out of the sunbathers.	* When used as a primitive, in addition to shells, the meanings oyster and clam will often come in handy.	Eye thought I saw a shellfish legging it down the beach!	Stare at the shellfish, it looks like an eye with legs.	1	2	バイ	かい	貝 (かい)
58	upright	TRINH (Trinh, chính đính, giữ được tấm lòng chính đính thủy chung không ai làm lay động được gọi là trinh. Như trung trinh, kiên trinh, v.v... Đàn bà không thất tiết (không yêu ai, chỉ yêu một chồng) gọi là trinh phụ. Con gái chính đính (không theo trai) gọi là trinh nữ.)	貞	upright, magic wand, augury, divining rod, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	9	4	Now take the last primitive, the shellfish, and set a magic wand over it, and you have the kanji for upright. After all, the clam and the oyster are incapable of walking upright. It would take a magician with his wand to pull off such a feat - which is precisely what we have in this kanji.		A magic wand is needed to make a clam stand upright.	Just the thought of my magic wand on her clam makes my magic wand stand upright.	JH	1	テイ	さだ	
59	employee	VIÊN (Nhân viên, thành viên, người.)	員	employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	10	4	How do we get a mouth over a shellfish to mean an employee? Simple. Just remember the advice new employees get about keeping their mouths shut and doing their job, and then make that more graphic by picturing an office building full of white collar workers scurrying around with clams pinched to their mouths.		An employee (member of the company) has to clam up his mouth if he wants keep the job!	An employee is basically a shellfish with a mouth.	3	4	イン		
61	see	KIẾN (Thấy, mắt trông thấy.)	見	see, eye, human legs	7	4	The elements that compose the character for see are the eye firmly fixed to a pair of human legs. Surely, somewhere in your experience, there is a vivid image just waiting to be dragged up to help you remember this character....		Eyes and legs are all you need to see the world.	As a primitive, this is Mike Wazowski from Monsters Inc. (the giant eyeball with legs...) Makes for easy stories later on.	1	5	ケン	み.る、み.える、み.せる	見える (み.える), 見せる (み.せる), 見る (み.る)
62	newborn babe	NHI (Nhi đồng, hài nhi)	児	newborn babe, olden times, stick, sun, day, human legs	7	4	"The top part of the kanji in this frame, you will remember, is the character for olden times, those days so old they needed a walking stick to get around. Western mythical imagination has old ""Father Time"" leaning on his sickle with a newborn babe crawling around his legs, the idea being that the circle of birth and-death goes on. This is the first of three times that the kanji for olden times will appear as a primitive element in another kanji, so try to make the most of it."		Only 18 and already got a newborn babe. Young girls are so quick to spread their legs these days...　　　RTK2:　ジ　児童　じどう　(child)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ニ　小児　しょうに(infant).	In the olden times, a new-born baby came out legs first.	4	2	ジ、ニ、ゲイ	こ、-こ、-っこ	児童 (じどう), 幼児 (ようじ), 優良児 (ゆうりょうじ)
63	beginning	NGUYÊN (Nguyên đán, kỷ nguyên (Lịch tây, lấy năm chúa Gia-tô giáng sinh, để ghi số năm, nên gọi năm ấy là kỷ NGUYÊN, nghĩa là số một bắt đầu từ đấy))	元	beginning, two, human legs	4	4	"""In the beginning..."" starts that marvelous shelf of books we call the Bible. It talks about how all things were made, and tells us that when the Creator came to humanity she made two of them, man and woman. While we presume she made two of every other animal as well, we are not told as much. Hence we need only two and a pair of human legs come to the kanji that means beginning."		In the BEGINNING were just two who walked on human legs.	"In the beginning God created woman, and God asked her how she liked his work. Woman replied, ""Well, you know how I have two eyes, two arms, two legs... it seems redundant to have three breasts. It would look more symmetrical with two."" God nodded, and the middle breast fell off... and it was good. Woman picked up the breast and said, ""Thank you, God! But what do I do with this useless boob?"" And God created man. That´s why the women today only have two boobs to match their two human legs."	2	4	ゲン、ガン	もと	元素 (げんそ), 元気 (げんき), 多元 (たげん), 元 (もと)
64	page	HIỆT (Đầu) Một tờ giấy gọi là nhất hiệt.	頁	page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	9	4	"What we have to do here is turn a shellfish into a page of a book. The one at the top tells us that we only get a rather short book, in fact only one page. Imagine a title printed on the shell of an oyster, let us say ""Pearl of Wisdom,"" and then open the quaint book to its one and only page, on which you find a single, radiant drop of wisdom, one of the masterpiece poems of nature."	* As a primitive, this kanji takes the unrelated meaning of a head (preferably one detached from its body), derived from the character for head (Frame 1549).	A shellfish carrying a page balanced on its head.	One drop of ink from a shellfish can fill a whole page.	Names		ケツ	ぺえじ、おおがい、かしら	
65	stubborn	NGOAN (Ngu, ương, không biết gì mà lại làm càn gọi là ngoan.) (Ngoan cường, ngoan cố)	頑	stubborn, beginning, two, human legs, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	4	"This character refers to the blockheaded, persistent stubbornness of one who sticks to an idea or a plan just the way it was at the beginning, without letting anything that comes up along the way alter things in the least. The explanation makes ""sense,"" but is hard to remember because the word ""beginning ""is too abstract. Back up to the image we used two frames ago - Adam and Eve in their Eden - and try again: The root of all stubbornness goes back to the beginning, with two brothers each stubbornly defending his own way of life and asking their God to bless it favorably. Abel stuck to agriculture, Cain to animal-raising. Picture these two with their giant, swelled heads, each vying for the favors of heaven, a stubborn grimace on their faces. No wonder something unfortunate happened!"		Picture a stubborn schoolboy, with his arms crossed and his book still open to the BEGINNING PAGE. Despite the teacher telling him to turn the page, he refuses and keeps his book on the BEGINNING PAGE.	A STUBBORN person in the beginning gets something into their head and can´t change their mind.	JH	1	ガン	かたく	
66	mediocre	PHÀM (Phàm nhân, siêu phàm)	凡	mediocre, drop, wind	3	4	"While we refer to something insignificant as a ""drop in the bucket,"" the kanji for mediocre suggests the image of a ""drop in the wind."""		A drop of breeze is naught but a mediocre wind.	Is there anything as mediocre as a drop of piss in the wind?	JH	1	ボン、ハン	およ.そ、おうよ.そ、すべ.て	凡人 (ぼんじん), 凡百 (ぼんひゃく), 平凡 (へいぼん)
67	defeat	PHỤ (cậy tài khinh người gọi là tự phụ bất phàm)	負	defeat, bound up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	9	4	Above we have the condensed form of bound up, and below the familiar shellfish. Now imagine two oysters engaged in shell-to-shell combat, the one who is defeated being bound and gagged with seaweed, the victor towering triumphantly over it. The bound shellfish thus becomes the symbol for defeat.		Tied up, the shellfish had to accept defeat!	Defeat is defined by a shellfish in binds.	3	3	フ	ま.ける、ま.かす、お.う	負う (お.う), 負かす (ま.かす), 負ける (ま.ける)
68	ten thousand	VẠN (VẠN TUẾ: muôn năm)	万	ten thousand, one, ceiling, bound up	3	4	"Japanese counts higher numbers in units of ten thousand, unlike the West, which advances according to units of one thousand. (Thus, for instance, 40,000 would be read ""four ten-thousands"" by a Japanese.) Given that the comma is used in larger numbers to bind up a numerical unit of one thousand, the elements for one and bound up naturally come to form ten thousand. The order of strokes here needs special attention, both because it falls outside the general principles we have learned already, and because it involves writing the element for bound up in an order opposite to the one we learned. If it is any consolation, this exception is consistent every time these three strokes come together."		I bound ten thousand dollars together and hid it under the floor.	"We have ""one"" at the top and if you turn the kanji 90 degrees you will see arabic 4 shich means it has four zeros in front of it!"	2	5	マン、バン	よろず	万一 (まんいち), 万年筆 (まんねんひつ), 巨万 (きょまん)
69	phrase	CÚ (Cú pháp)	句	phrase, bound up, mouth	5	4	By combining the two primitives bound up and mouth, we can easily see how this character can get the meaning of a phrase. After all, a phrase is nothing more than a number of words bound up tightly and neatly so that they will fit in your mouth.		Some Japanese CÚ are difficult to wrap your mouth around.	A bound mouth cannot utter a single phrase.	5	1	ク		句 (く)
70	texture	CƠ (Da, thịt trong da)	肌	texture, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wind	6	4	"Ever notice how the texture of your face and hands is affected by the wind? A day's skiing or sailing makes them rough and dry, and in need of a good soft cream to soothe the burn. So whenever a part of the body gets exposed to the wind, its texture is affected. (If it is any help, the Latin word hiding inside texture connotes how something is ""to the touch."")"		When you expose your flesh to the wind it gets textured: goosebumps!	The moon´s lack of wind preserves its texture.	JH	2	キ	はだ	肌 (はだ)
71	decameron	Tuần (mười ngày gọi là một tuần, một tháng có ba tuần.)	旬	decameron, bound up, sun, day	6	4	There simply is not a good phrase in English for the block often days which this character represents. So we resurrect the classical phrase, decameron, whose connotations the tales of Boccaccio have done much to enrich. Actually, it refers to a journey of ten days taken by a band of people - that is, a group of people bound together for the days of the decameron.		If you bind up ten days, you get a decameron.	Hesig should be BOUND for a DAY (or maybe 10 days - a decameron) for calling this Kanji DECAMERON. See martyrdom (#809).	JH	1	ジュン、シュン		
72	ladle	CHƯỚC (Cái môi dùng để múc canh.)	勺	ladle, bound up, drop	3	4	If you want to bind up drops of anything - water, soup, lemonade - you use something to scoop these drops up, which is what we call a ladle. See the last drop left inside the ladle?		A ladle binds drops together.	Forget about the primative ´bound up´. Imagine instead the shape of a ladle and holding it upside down to drink the last DROP (of water).	Names	1	シャク		
73	bull´s eye	ĐÍCH (mục đích)	的	bull’s eye, white, dove, ladle, bound up, drop	8	4	"The elements white bird and ladle easily suggest the image of a bull's eye if you imagine a rusty old ladle with a bull's eye painted on it in the form of a tiny white bird, who lets out a little ""peep"" every time you hit the target."		I managed to hit the bull's eye by throwing my white ladle.	"A white, bound up, drop in the center is the bull´s eye. (why Heisig had to use ""ladle"" instead of the original two primitives that make up ""ladle"" I´ll never understand!)."	4		テキ	まと	的 (まと)
74	neck	THỦ (Đầu)	首	neck, horns, nose, one, ceiling, drop, eye	9	4	"Reading this kanji from the top down, we have: horns . . . nose. Together they bring to mind the picture of a moose-head hanging on the den wall, with its great horns and long nose. Now while we would speak of cutting off a moose's ""head"" to hang on the wall, the Japanese speak of cutting off its neck. It's all a matter of how you look at it. Anyway, if you let the word neck conjure up the image of a moose with a very l-o-n-g neck hanging over the fireplace, whose horns you use for a coat-rack and whose nose has spigots left and right for scotch and water, you should have no trouble with the character. Here we get a good look at what we mentioned when we first introduced the element for horns: that they can never be left floating free and require an extra horizontal stroke to prevent that from happening, as is the case here."		The mooses neck supports it´s big horns and long nose.	The V shape is your neck on top of your collar bone, or the straight line. Yourself, or the rest of your body is below that!	2	3	シュ	くび	首 (くび)
75	fish guts	ẤT (ngư khử ất = cả bỏ ruột)	乙	fishguts, fishhook	1	5	"The kanji shown here actually represents the ""second"" position in the old Chinese zodiac, which the Japanese still use as an alternate way of enumeration, much the same way that English will revert to Roman numerals. Among its many other meanings are ""pure,"" ""tasteful,"" ""quaint,"" and - get this! - fish guts. Since it is a pictograph of a fishhook, it should not be hard to associate it with the key word."	* We will keep fishhook as the primitive meaning. Its shape will rarely be quite the same as that of the kanji. When it appears at the bottom of another primitive, it is straightened out, almost as if the weight of the upper element had bent it out of shape. And when it appears to the right of another element, the short horizontal line that gets the shape started is omitted and it is stretched out and narrowed, all for reasons of space and aesthetics. Examples follow.	This is a fish hook, that pulls out the fishguts.	You cut a fish in a z shape on the belly to make it easier to open the fish and rip out its fish guts silly!	JH	1	オツ、イツ	おと-、きのと	
76	riot	LOẠN	乱	riot, tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth, fishhook	7	5	"In a riot, manners are laid aside and tempers get short, even in so courtesy-conscious a land as Japan. This kanji shows what happens to a rioting tongue: it gets ""barbed"" like a fishhook, and sets to attacking the opposition, to hook them as it were."		The riot police broke up the riot by dragging the rioters away by their tongues with fishooks.	A tongue with a hook can cause a riot.	6	2	ラン、ロン	みだ.れる、みだ.る、みだ.す、みだ、おさ.める、わた.る	乱す (みだ.す), 乱れる (みだ.れる)
77	straightaway	TRỰC (ngay lập tức)	直	straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook	8	5	Begin with the top two primitives, needle and eye. Together they represent the eye of a needle. Below them is a fishhook that has been straightened out and its barb removed so that it can pass through the eye of the needle.		If you get a needle in your eye that is hooked in there, get to a hospital straightaway.	I caught a freaky creature with ten eyes on my fish hook, so I threw it back straightaway.	2	3	チョク、ジキ、ジカ	ただ.ちに、なお.す、-なお.す、なお.る、なお.き、す.ぐ	直立 (ちょくりつ), 直接 (ちょくせつ), 実直 (じっちょく), 直ちに (ただ.ちに), 直す (なお.す), 直る (なお.る)
78	tool	CỤ (Công cụ)	具	tool, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight	8	5	Here is the full kanji on which the last frame is based. If you can think of a table full of carpenter's tools of all sorts, each equipped with its own eye so that it can keep a watch over what you are doing with it, you won't have trouble later keeping the primitive and the kanji apart.		Keep an eye on your tools while you work at the table.	One tool nobody should be without - a Mordor-type eye that floats over the workbench. It jerks around, monitoring all who come near, and if anyone so much as removes a stapler from the bench - ZAP.	3	3	グ	そな.える、つぶさ.に	
79	true	CHÂN (Chân lý)	真	true, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight	10	5	Here again we meet the composite element, eye of the needle, which here combines with tool to give us a measure of what is true and what is not.		A compass is a tool with a needle on top that points to true north.	Ten tools are all a true craftsman needs.	3	4	シン	ま、ま-、まこと	真 (ま)
80	craft	CÔNG (công nghệ, công nhân)	工	craft, artificial	3	5	The pictograph of an I beam, like the kind used in heavy construction work on buildings and bridges, gives us the character for craft in general.	* As a primitive element, the key word retains the meaning of craft and also takes on the related meanings of I beam and artificial.	I consider craft to be one of the harder primitives to use in stories so I´ve personified it as Bender the crafty robot from Futurama who was designed to bend I-beams.	I crafty.	2	4	コウ、ク、グ		工場 (こうじょう), 加工 (かこう), 人工 (じんこう)
81	left	Tả (tả hữu: trái, phải)	左	left, by one’s side, craft	5	5	"By combining the primitive and the kanji of the last two frames and reading the results, we get: by one's side . . . craft. Conveniently, the left has traditionally been considered the ""sinister"" side, where dark and occult crafts are cultivated. Note how the second stroke droops over to the left and is longer than the first."		The LEFT side of my brain posesses the faculties needed for logical crafts, like engineering.	The left side of my brain, is for crafts.	1	5	サ、シャ	ひだり	左 (ひだり)
82	right	Hữu (bên phải)	右	right, by one’s side, mouth	5	5	When thinking of the key word right, in order to avoid confusion with the previous frame, take advantage of the double meaning here, too. Imagine a little mouth hanging down by your side - like a little voice of conscience - telling you the right thing to do. Here the second stroke should reach out to the right and be drawn slightly longer than the first.		The right hand is for putting food in your mouth. (The other hand is for ass-wiping!).	Always keep your right to free speech (mouth) by your side!	1	5	ウ、ユウ	みぎ	右岸 (みぎぎし), 右折 (うせつ), 右派 (うは), 右 (みぎ)
83	possess	Hữu (sở hữu)	有	possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	6	5	The picture here is of someone with a slab of meat dangling by the side, perhaps from a belt or rope tied around the waist. Think of it as an evil spirit in possession of one's soul, who can be exorcized only by allowing fresh meat to hang by one's side until it begins to putrefy and stink so bad that the demon departs. Take careful note of the stroke order.		By my side I POSSESS a moon of flesh, better known as your big ass!	Possessed by the Earth´s gravity, the moon stays by its side.	3	4	ユウ、ウ	あ.る	有益 (ゆうえき), 所有 (しょゆう), 特有 (とくゆう), 有 (ある)
84	bribe	Hối (hối lộ)	賄	bribe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	13	5	To the left we have the primitive for a shellfish, and to the right the kanji we just learned for possess. Keep the connotation of the last frame for the word possess, and now expand your image of shells to include the ancient value they had as money (a usage that will come in very helpful later on). Now one who is possessed by shells is likely to abandon any higher principles to acquire more and more wealth. These are the easiest ones to bribe with a few extra shells.		To bribe someone, money is a necessary possession.	If you possess enough shellfish, you can bribe anyone.	JH	1	ワイ	まかな.う	賄う (まかな.う)
85	tribute	Cống (cống hiến, cống nạp)	貢	tribute, craft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	10	5	A tribute has a kind of double-meaning in English: honor paid freely and money collected by coercion. Simply because a ruler bestows a noble name on a deed is hardly any consolation to the masses who must part with their hard-earned money. Little wonder that this ancient craft of getting money by calling it a tribute has given way to a name closer to how it feels to those who pay it: a tax.		Tribute is the craft of raising money.	This next song is a TRIBUTE to a little SHELLFISH friend of mine who was tragically crushed by an I-shaped table..	JH	1	コウ、ク	みつ.ぐ	貢献 (こうけん), 貢 (みつぐ)
86	paragraph	Hạng	項	paragraph, craft, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	5	"To the right we see a head and to the left an element that means craft. When we think of a paragraph, we immediately think of a heading device to break a text into parts. (Think of the elaborate heads often seen at the start of medieval manuscripts and the task becomes easier still.) Just where and how to do it belongs to the writer's craft. Hence, we define paragraphing as the ""heading craft"" to remember this character."		To write a paragraph is the craft of grouping sentences on a page.	To craft a page well, we need paragraphs.	JH	1	コウ	うなじ	
87	sword	Đao	刀	sword, dagger	2	5	Although this character no longer looks very much like a sword, it does have some resemblance to the handle of the sword. This is to our advantage, in that it helps us keep make a distinction between two primitive elements based on this kanji.	* In the form of the kanji, this primitive means a dagger. When it appears to the right of another element, it is commonly stretched out and takes the sense of a great and flashing saber, a meaning it gets from a character we shall learn later (Frame 1801).	This SWORD is so sharp, it can cut the top part of カ off in カタナ.	If you look really close this kanji looks like a person bending over touching the ground Waiting for someone to put there sword in his ass!	2	1	トウ	かたな、そり	刀 (かたな)
88	blade	Nhận (Mũi nhọn. Chém giết. Như thủ nhận: tự tay mình giết.)	刃	blade, drop, sword, dagger	3	5	Think of using a dagger as a razor blade, and it shouldn't be hard to imagine cutting yourself. See the little drop of blood clinging to the blade?		The part of a sword where a drop of blood can usually be found is the blade.	A drop of blood on the blade of my sword.	JH	1	ジン、ニン	は、やいば、き.る	刃 (は)
89	cut	Thiết (thiết thực, thân thiết)	切	cut, seven, diced, sword, dagger	4	5	To the right we see the dagger and next to it the number seven whose primitive meaning we decided would be diced (Frame 7). It is hard to think of cutting anything with a knife without imagining one of those skillful Japanese chefs. Only let us say that he has had too much to drink at a party, grabs a dagger lying on the mantelpiece and starts dicing up everything insight, starting with the hors d'oeuvres and going on to the furniture and the carpets....		The seven samurai used their swords to cut their opponents.	Seven swords cut better than one.	2	4	セツ、サイ	き.る、-き.る、き.り、-き.り、-ぎ.り、き.れる、-き.れる、き.れ、-き.れ、-ぎ.れ	切断 (せつだん), 親切 (しんせつ), 切に (せつに), 切る (き.る), 切れる (き.れる)
90	seduce	Triệu (Vời, lấy tay vẫy lại là triệu, lấy lời gọi lại là triệu.)	召	seduce, sword, dagger, mouth	5	5	"A sword or dagger posed over a mouth is how the character for ""beckoning"" is written. The related but less tame key word seduce was chosen because it seemed to fit better with the - how shall we put it? - Freudian implications of the kanji. (Observe if you will that it is not sure whether the long slender object is seducing the small round one or vice versa.)"	* The primitive meaning remains the same: seduce. Just be sure to associate it with a very concrete image.	"A man is easily seduced by a mouth to his ""sword.""."	To seduce is to make a sword of one´s mouth.	JH	2	ショウ	め.す	召す (め.す)
91	shining	Chiêu (Sáng sủa, rõ rệt. Như chiêu chương: rõ rệt.)	昭	shining, sun, day, seduce, summon, sword, dagger, mouth	9	5	Let the key word suggest shining one's shoes, the purpose of which is to seduce the sun down on them for all to see.		Shining is the sun´s seduction.	The sun was shining so bright that it seduced Icarus and he flew too close.	3	1	ショウ		
92	rule	Tắc (phép tắc)	則	rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber	9	5	The character depicts a clam alongside a great and flashing saber. Think of digging for clams in an area where there are gaming rules governing how large a find has to be before you can keep it. So you take your trusty saber, which you have carefully notched like a yardstick, crack open a clam and then measure the poor little beastie to see if it is as long as the rules say it has to be.		When you have both money and the power of the sword, you can make the rules.	If you´ve got CRABs on your SABER, then you didn´t follow the rules of safe sex!	5	2	ソク	のっと.る	
93	vice-	PHÓ	副	vice-, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains, sword, sabre, saber	11	5	The key word vice has the sense of someone second-in-command. The great and flashing saber to the right (its usual location, so you need not worry about where to put it from now on) and the wealth on the left combine to create an image of dividing one's property to give a share to one's vice-wealth holder.		The wealthy guy with the sword standing next to the king, that´s the vice-roy who does all the dirty work.	Vice-president Cheney: a wealthy saber rattler.	4	2	フク		
94	separate	Biệt	別	separate, mouth, bound up, sword, sabre, saber	7	5	In the Old East, the samurai and his saber were never separated. They were constant companions, like the cowboy of the Old West and his six-shooter. This character depicts what must have been the height of separation-anxiety for a samurai: to be bound up with a rope and unable to get at his saber leaning only a few feet away from him. Look at that mouth bellowing out for shame and sorrow! Note the order in which the element for tied up is written - just as it had been with the character for ten thousand.		I don´t know about you but to me this seems like someone´s head is about to be separated from his body. You can see he´s kneeling and his mouth is wide open gasping for the last breath he will ever take.	A wise old samurai keeps his hostages (with their mouths bound up to keep them quiet) in a separate room from his sabers. Putting them together would be a silly mistake.	4	4	ベツ	わか.れる、わ.ける	別れる (わか.れる)
95	street	Đinh	丁	street, street, nail, spike	2	5	The picture here is of a street sign on a long pole: Hollywood and Vine, if you please, or any street that immediately conjure sup the image of a street sign to you.	* Used as a primitive, we change the meaning of the key word and take the shape to signify a nail or a spike. Should it happen, on reviewing, that you find the pictographs get jumbled, then think of jerking a street sign out of the ground and using it as a nail to repair your garage roof.	Two streets make a T-intersection.	"Today, the program ""Sesame Street"" is brought to you by the letter ""T""."	3	1	チョウ、テイ、チン、トウ、チ	ひのと	丁数 (ちょうかず), 落丁 (らくちょう), 二丁目 (にちょうめ)
96	village	Đinh	町	village, rice field, brains, street, nail, spike	7	5	Street signs standing at the corner of the rice fields depict the village limits. (Remember what was said earlier: when used as a primitive, a kanji may either take its primitive meaning or revert to the original meaning of its key word.)		Actually this means town, like one that has lots of streets and is surrounded by all the rice fields.	"Getting this one confused with Town is easy, so remember it with this rhyme. ""Pillage the village, for the rice and and the tea."" the street primitive on the right looks like a ´t´."	1	4	チョウ	まち	町 (まち)
97	can	Khả, khắc	可	can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike	5	5	"Remember the story about the ""Little Engine that Could"" when you hear this key word, and the rest is simple. See the determined little locomotive huffing and puffing up the mountain - ""I think I can, I think I can...."" - spitting railroad spikes out of its mouth as it chews up the line to the top."		I can eat nails.	"A mouth on the street asking for things: ""Can I get some help?! Can I get directions, Can I have some money? Can you please speak English?!""."	5		カ、コク	-べ.き	
98	place on the head	Đính (đỉnh đầu)	頂	place on the head, street, nail, spike, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	5	"The key word is actually a formal metaphor meaning ""humble acceptance."" Reading off the two primitive elements in the order of their writing, we have: nail . . . head. As in ""hitting the nail on the head."" Now one presumes that most people can handle metaphors, but if you were to run into a dimwit working in a hardware store who only knew the literal meaning of things, and were to ask him, in your best Japanese, to place on your head a nail, he might miss the point and cause you considerable torment."		If I put a street sign on my head what do I get ? A place on the head !	NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, 　　　The HEAD ON commercial nails it into your head......	6	3	チョウ	いただ.く、いただき	頂く (いただ.く), 頂 (いただき)
99	child	TỬ,TÝ (phần tử, nguyên tử, mẫu tử, tử tôn)	子	child	3	6	This kanji is a pictograph of a child wrapped up in one of those handy cocoons that Japanese mothers fix to their backs to carry around young children who cannot get around by themselves. The first stroke is like a wee head popping out for air; the second shows the body and legs all wrapped up; and the final stroke shows the arms sticking out to cling to the mother's neck.	* As a primitive, the meaning of child is retained, though you might imagine a little older child, able to run around and get into more mischief.	A child who is ten will still ask for his ma (top looks a bit like katakana ma).	A pictograph of a child, with arms outstretched for mother (or perhaps because she is chasing a rat?). Note that this kanji occupies the first space on the Zodiac circle, and is the sign for the rat (such as 2008!).	1	5	シ、ス、ツ	こ、-こ、ね	子孫 (しそん), 女子 (じょし), 帽子 (ぼうし), 子 (こ)
100	cavity	KHỔNG (Lỗ. Như tỵ khổng: lỗ mũi)	孔	cavity, child, fishhook	4	6	"Probably the one thing most children fear more than anything else is the dentist's chair. Once a child has seen a dentist holding the x-rays up to the light and heard that ominous word cavity, even though it is not likely to know that the word means ""hole"" until it is much older, it will not be long before those two syllables get associated with the drill and that row of shiny hooks the dentist uses to torture people who are too small to fight back."		The child´s arms flailed around at the sight of the hooked tool the dentist was going to use to fill his cavity.	I warned him about cavities, but the child is still hooked on sweets.	JH	1	コウ	あな	
101	complete	"LIỄU (Xong, như ""liễu sự"": xong việc.)"	了	complete, child with arms wrapped up	2	6	"Learn this character by returning to frame 99 and the image given there. The only difference is that the ""arms"" have been left off (actually, only tucked inside). Thus a child with its arms wrapped up into the back-sack is the picture of a job successfully completed."		The experiment was a complete failure! The child was made without any arms!	A child with the arms inside the blanket will be completely wrapped up.	JH	2	リョウ		
102	woman	NỮ	女	woman	3	6	You have probably seen somewhere the form of a squatting woman drawn behind this character, with two legs at the bottom, two arms (the horizontal line) and the head poking out the top. A little farfetched, until you draw the character and feel the grace and flow of the three simple strokes. Remembering the kanji is easy; being able to write it beautifully is another thing.	* The primitive meaning is the same: woman.	"To remember the order of strokes, remember a female ninja is called a ""kunoichi"". That is, く(hiragana) ノ(katakana) 一(kanji, ichi=one)."	My mother taught me that a woman should always sit with her legs crossed (but the arms can be stretched out).	1	5	ジョ、ニョ、ニョウ	おんな、め	女子 (じょし), 女流 (じょりゅう), 少女 (しょうじょ), 女人 (にょにん), 天女 (てんにょ), 善男善女 (ぜんなんぜんにょ), 女 (おんな), 女 (め)
103	fond	HIẾU,HẢO (Hiếu học)	好	fond, woman, child	6	6	"The phrase ""to be fond of someone"" has a natural gentleness about it, and lends a tenderness to the sense of touching by giving us the related term ""to fondle."" The character likens it to a woman fondling her child."		A woman is fond of her child.	"Jane Fonda carrying a Vietnamese child. Pro-war protesters hold signs, ""I´m not fonda Jane!""...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　コウ　好評　こうひょう(favorable criticism)."	4	3	コウ	この.む、す.く、よ.い、い.い	好む (この.む), 好く (す.く)
104	likeness	NHƯ (Bằng, cùng. Dùng để so sánh. Như ái nhân như kỉ: yêu người như yêu mình.)	如	likeness, woman, mouth	6	6	Pardon me if I revert to the venerable old Dr. Freud again, but his eye for symbolism is often helpful to appreciate things that more earthy imaginations once accepted more freely but that we have learned to cover over with a veneer of etiquette. For instance, the fact that things like the mouth of a cave served as natural ritual substitutes for the opening through which a woman gives birth. Hence, in order to be reborn as an adult, one may have to pass through the psychological equivalent of the womb, that is, something that bears a likeness to the opening of the woman from whom you were born.		Women share a common likeness. Their mouths are always open, whining about this and that.	From a woman´s other 口comes a baby with a perfect likeness.	JH	1	ジョ、ニョ	ごと.し	欠如 (けつじょ), 突如 (とつじょ), 躍如 (やくじょ)
105	mama	MẪU	母	mama, mother, breasts	5	6	Look closely at this kanji and you will find the outline of the kanji for woman in it, the second stroke of which has been expanded to make space for the two breasts that make her a mama. Likening this sound to a baby nursing at its mother's breast has afforded some scholars of comparative linguistics a way to explain the presence of the same word across a wide range of language groups.	* As a primitive we shall add the meaning of breasts in accord with the explanation given above. Take careful note of the fact that the form is altered slightly when this kanji serves as a primitive, the final two dots joining together to form a longer stroke. An example follows in the next frame.	The two breasts of a momma who breastfeeds.	This mama had twins, one mouth for each nipple.	2	5	ボ	はは、も	母 (はは)
106	pierce	QUÁN (Suốt thông, xâu qua. Như quán châu: xâu hạt châu)	貫	pierce, mama, mother, breasts, oyster, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	6	If one is asked to think of associations for the word pierce, among the first to come to mind is that of piercing one's ears to hold earrings, a quite primitive form of self-mutilation that has survived into the 21st century. The kanji here is read, top to bottom: mama . . . oyster. All you need to do is imagine piercing an ear so that it can hold a mother-of-pearl (actually, a mama-of-pearl) you have just wrested from an oyster.		The sad fate of Mama shellfish was to be captured and pierced to make an earring.	Ariel the Little Mermaid´s clamshell bra was held to her breasts by piercings.	JH	1	カン	つらぬ.く、ぬ.く、ぬき	貫く (つらぬ.く)
107	elder brother	HUYNH	兄	elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	5	6	"By now kanji like this one should ""look like"" something to you even though it is more of an ""ideogram"" than a ""pictograph."" The large mouth on top and the human legs below almost jump off the page as a caricature of elder brother, the one with the big mouth (or if you prefer a kinder image, the one who ""has the say"" among all the children)."	* As a primitive this character will take the meaning of teenager, in accord with the familiar image of the big mouth and the gangling, clumsy legs.	Mother, why is elder brother´s mouth between the neighbor girl´s legs? RTK2:　ケイ　父兄　ふけい　(father and elder brother)　　　　　　　　　キョウ　兄弟　きょうだい(brothers)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　(ｺｸ): 克104　(ｷｮｳ): 況145　競434　(ｼｭｸ): 祝1089.	My elder brother was basically a mouth on legs when he was a teenager.	2	4	ケイ、キョウ	あに	兄事 (あにこと), 父兄 (ふけい), 義兄 (ぎあに), 兄 (あに)
109	overcome	KHẮC (Dược, đánh được gọi là khắc. Như khắc phục)	克	overcome, ten, needle, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	7	6	"In this frame we get a chance to use the kanji we just learned in its primitive meaning of teenager. The needle on top indicates one of the major problems confronting the teenager growing up in today's world: drugs. Many of them will fall under the shadow of the needle at some time during those tender years, but only when a whole generation rises up and decides that ""We Shall Overcome"" the plague, will the needle cease to hangover their heads, as it does in this character."		Ten elder brothers can overcome anything.	A teenager addicted to heroine must overcome the needle.	JH	1	コク	か.つ	
110	little	TIỂU (tiểu đội)	小	little, small	3	7	"The sense of little that this character represents is not the same as ""a little bit."" That meaning comes in the next frame. Here little means ""small"" or ""tiny."" The image is one of three little drops, the first of which (the one in the middle) is written larger so that the kanji has some shape to it. The point of writing it three times is to rub the point in: little, little, nothing but little."	* The primitive of the same shape keeps the same meaning. Written above a horizontal line, its form is slightly altered, the last two strokes turning inwards.	A little penguin with its wings at its side.	A depressed child, head low and arms hung low, because he´s too little to ride the roller coaster.	1	5	ショウ	ちい.さい、こ-、お-、さ-	小 (お), 小 (こ), 小さい (ちい.さい)
111	few	THIẾU,THIỂU (thiểu năng)	少	few, little, small, drop	4	7	First we need to look at the fourth stroke, the drop at the bottom that has been extended into a longer diagonal stroke leaning left. This happens because a single, isolated drop will NEVER appear beneath its relative primitive in its normal size, for fear it would drop off and get lost. As for the meaning, let the tiny drop indicate a further belittling of what is already little - thus making it a few of something little.		Only a few people can make an ugly face like that.	Few usually refers to three. To emphasize three, we underline the three drops in little.	2	4	ショウ	すく.ない、すこ.し	少ない (すく.ない), 少し (すこ.し)
112	large	ĐẠI	大	large, St. Bernard	3	7	Here we have a simple pictograph of a person, taking up the space of an entire character and giving it the sense of large. It should not be too hard to locate the two legs and outstretched arms.	* As a primitive, we need a different meaning, since the element representing the human person will come up later. Therefore, this shape will become a large dog or, if you prefer, a St. Bernard dog. In frame 253 we will explain why this choice was made.	A person stretching their arms and legs to look large and scare a bear away.	Think of a large St. Bernard dog with his paws all stretched out.	1	5	ダイ、タイ	おお-、おお.きい、-おお.いに	大小 (だいしょう), 大胆 (だいたん), 拡大 (かくだい), 大 (おお), 大いに (おお.いに), 大きい (おお.きい)
113	many	ĐA (đa số)	多	many, evening, evening2	6	7	"""Many moons ago,"" begins much of Amerindian folklore - a colorful way of saying ""Once upon a time"" and a great deal of help for remembering this kanji. Here we have two moons (three of them would take us back to the beginning of time, which is further than we want to go), lacking the final stroke because they are partially hidden behind the clouds of time."		Two evenings too many!	"This reminds me of a childish pseudo-confucion rhyme: ""He who eats many prunes sits on toilet many moons""."	2	4	タ	おお.い、まさ.に、まさ.る	多い (おお.い)
114	evening	TỊCH (Buổi tối.)	夕	evening	3	7	"Just as the word evening adds a touch of formality or romanticism to the ordinary word ""night,"" so the kanji for evening takes the ordinary looking moon in the night sky and has a cloud pass over it (as we saw in the last frame)."	* The primitive keeps the same meaning and connotation as the kanji.	The evening is young, the moon is not full.	"In the evening, I try my best to remember the katakana symbol for ""TA"" (ie. ""ta ta!"")."	1	4	セキ	ゆう	夕 (ゆう)
115	eventide	TỊCH (Nước thủy triều buổi tối.)	汐	eventide, water, water droplets, water pistol, evening	6	7	In the next lesson we will meet the character for morning-tide and the element for drops of water. Meantime we have a perfect blend of picture and idea in this kanji to play on the English word for nightfall, eventide: drops of water inching their way up the shore in the evening.		Eventide is just another word for evening, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with water.	Drops of water shower the beach as the evening tide approaches: eventide.	Names	1	セキ	しお、うしお、せい	
116	outside	NGOẠI (ngoại ngữ)	外	outside, evening, magic wand, augury	5	7	On the left, the primitive for evening, and on the right, that for the magic wand. Now, as every magician worth his abracadabra knows, bringing your magic wand out into the evening air makes your magic much more powerful than if you were to stay indoors. Hence, evening and magic wand takes you naturally outside.		A young magician likes to practice outside in the evening with his magic wand (as opposed to the old magician who wakes early to practice with his wand in eminent (#51)).	Outside in the dark of evening, only a magic wand can help you.	2	5	ガイ、ゲ	そと、ほか、はず.す、はず.れる、と-	外出 (がいしゅつ), 海外 (かいがい), 除外 (じょがい), 外 (そと), 外す (はず.す), 外れる (はず.れる), 外 (ほか)
117	name	DANH (danh bất hư truyền)	名	name, evening, mouth	6	7	Perhaps you have heard of the custom, still preserved in certain African tribes, of a father creeping into the tent or hut of his newborn child on the night of the child's birth, to whisper into its ear the name he has chosen for it, before making his choice public. It is an impressive naming custom and fits in tidily with the way this character is constructed: evening . . . mouth. At evening time, a mouth pronounces the name that will accompany one throughout life.		In the evening, when it becomes dark, open your mouth to say your name so that people can recognise you.	In the evening, her sweet mouth whispered my name.	1	5	メイ、ミョウ	な、-な	名誉 (めいよ), 氏名 (しめい), 有名 (ゆうめい), 名 (な)
118	stone	THẠCH (đá thạch anh)	石	stone, cliff, mouth	5	7	With a mouth under a cliff, what else could we have here but the entrance to a secret cavern, before which a great stone has been rolled so that none may enter. Perhaps it is the hiding place where Ali Baba and his band of thieves have stored their treasures, in which case that magic word known to every school child who ever delighted over the tales of the Arabian Nights should be enough to push the stone aside. But take care - the cliff is steep, and one slip will send you tumbling down into the ravine below. This is the one and only time that the second stroke in cliff will reach over to the middle of the horizontal stroke. If you think of the edge jutting outwards (in keeping with the story above), the problem should be taken care of.	* The stone is a quite common primitive element, which is not restricted to great boulders but used of stones or rocks of any size or shape.	Indiana Jones jumps up and grabs the lip of cliff just in time to evade the huge STONE rolling out of the mouth of the cave!	There´s a VERY simple way to remember this, in case the cliff thing isn´t working for you... Just see it as a stone [いし] being hammered by a miner searching for jewel stones [ほうせき] ;).	1	3	セキ、シャク、コク	いし	石材 (せきざい), 岩石 (がんせき), 宝石 (ほうせき), 磁石 (じしゃく), 石 (いし)
119	resemblance	TIÊU (Giống)	肖	resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	7	7	"The word resemblance should suggest, among other things, a son's resemblance to his father. A ""chip off the old block"" is the way we often put it, but the character is more simple. It speaks of a little bit of flesh."	* When used as a primitive, the sense of resemblance is replaced by that of spark or candle. (If you want an explanation: the kanji for moon also carries a secondary sense of fire, which we omitted because we are keeping that meaning for other primitives.)	It doesn't hold a candle to the real thing. They share a resemblance at most.	Using DNA matching, a very little bit of flesh can be used to show the resemblence between family members.	JH	1	ショウ	あやか.る	
120	nitrate	TIÊU (Dá tiêu. Chất trong suốt, đốt cháy dữ, dùng làm thuốc súng thuốc pháo và nấu thủy tinh.)	硝	nitrate, stone, rock, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	12	7	The word nitrate should immediately suggest a beaker of nitric acid, which, as every high-school chemistry student knows, can eat its way through some pretty tough substances. Here we imagine pouring it over a rock and watching the sparks fly as it bores a hole through the rock.		That stone has sparks coming out of it! Someone must have poured nitrate acid on it.	"Salpetre is the common name for Nitrate coming from Latin ""sal petrae"" or stone salt. It is also a component of gun powder so including a candle in this kanji can be quite explosive!"	JH	1	ショウ		
121	smash	TOÁI (toái thạch: đá vụn)	砕	smash, stone, rock, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle	9	7	We begin with the two elements on the right, baseball and needle. Since they will be coming together from time to time, let us give the two of them the sense of a game of cricket in which a needle is laid across the wicket. Then imagine using a rock for a ball. A smash hit would probably splinter the bat in all directions, and a smashing pitch would do the same with the needle wicket.		To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times.	The Stones (the Rolling Stones) are 90 aged but they´ve done a new SMASH hit!	JH	1	サイ	くだ.く、くだ.ける	砕く (くだ.く), 砕ける (くだ.ける)
122	sand	SA (sa mạc)	砂	sand, stone, rock, few	9	7	Good sand for beaches has few or no stones in it. That means that all of us whose feet have been spoiled by too much time in shoes don't have to watch our step as we cavort about.		Here´s how I remember that stone is on the left. This is because sand starts as stones, and only later they become few.	In good SAND, stones are few, if any.	6	2	サ、シャ	すな	砂丘 (さきゅう), 砂糖 (さとう), 砂 (すな)
124	plane	TƯỚC (tước vỏ)	削	plane, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber	9	7	Long before the invention of the carpenter's plane, people used knives and machetes (or here, sabers) to smooth out their woodwork. If you have ever seen the process, you will have been amazed at the speed and agility with which the adept can plane a hunk of wood into shape. Indeed, you can almost see the sparks fly from their sabers.		Sparks will fly if you attempt to PLANE your sabre.	With today´s strict air regulations, carrying a sabre onto a plane could spark quite a commotion.	JH	1	サク	けず.る、はつ.る、そ.ぐ	削る (けず.る)
125	ray	QUANG	光	ray, small, little, human legs	6	7	"There are really only 2 primitives here, little and human legs. The 4th stroke that separates them is added for reasons of aesthetics. (If that doesn't make sense, try writing the kanji without it and see how ugly the results look, even to your beginner's eye.) Now if you have wondered what those little particles of ""dust"" are that dance around in the light-rays that come through the window and fall on your desk, try imagining them as little and disembodied human legs, and you should have no trouble with this character."		A ray of light is not a wave but made of little photons with human legs.	The ray from Honey I Shrunk the Kids made people little - ha! look at them run around on their tiny legs!	2	3	コウ	ひか.る、ひかり	光る (ひか.る), 光 (ひかり)
126	plump	THÁI (thái tự: kiểu chữ đậm)	太	plump, large, St. Bernard, drop	4	7	"""Plump"" is one of those delightful English words that almost sound like their meaning. No sooner do you hear it than you think of a round and ample-bodied person falling into a sofa like a large drop of oil plopping into a fishbowl - kerrrr-plump!"		A large person with a big drop of sweat dripping off of him because he is so plump.	"Fat(""plump"") men always have small penises.....the kanji is a combination of ""large"" with a drop(representing the small penis between his legs)."	2	3	タイ、タ	ふと.い、ふと.る	太陽 (たいよう), 太鼓 (たいこ), 皇太子 (こうたいし), 太い (ふと.い), 太る (ふと.る)
127	utensil	KHÍ (Đồ. Như khí dụng: đồ dùng)	器	utensil, mouth, large, St. Bernard, mouth4	15	7	The picture in this kanji is not a pleasant one. It shows a large and fluffy St. Bernard dog stretched out on a table all stuffed and stewed and garnished with vegetables, its paws in the air and an apple in its mouth. At each corner of the table sits an eager but empty mouth, waiting for the utensils to arrive so the feast can begin.		Imagine four hungry mouths all sitting around the table. They are all banging their utensils on the table waiting for a big meal to be placed in the centre.	"Note: 器 by itself means container/caliber/vessel. And 食器 means eating utensils (""food container"", hehe)."	4	1	キ	うつわ	器 (うつわ)
128	stinking	XÚ (Mùi.)	臭	stinking, nose, drop, eye, large, St. Bernard	9	7	This character is a bit friendlier to the animal world. Our friend the St. Bernard is alive and well, its nose in the air sniffing suspiciously after something stinking somewhere or other.		The ST. BERNARD DOG lifted his large NOSE high in the air to find out where the stinking smell comes from.	When I is big, Ego stinking.	JH	1	シュウ	くさ.い、-くさ.い、にお.う、にお.い	臭い (くさ.い)
130	exquisite	DIỆU (Khéo, hay, thần diệu lắm. Tinh thần khéo léo mầu nhiệm không thể nghĩ nghị được gọi là diệu. Tuổi trẻ gọi là diệu niên)	妙	exquisite, woman, few	7	7	"The primitive for woman is on the left (there and at the bottom of another primitive is where you will always find her), and to the right the element for few. When we refer to a woman as exquisite, we mean to praise her as the sort of person we meet but few and far between. If you are interested in etymologies, it might help to recall that the Latin phrase lying at the root of the English word exquisite carries this same sense of ""seeking out"" the rare from the ordinary."		Exquisite women are few and far between.	A geisha is an exquisite and delicate (another meaning of this kanji) women, however, even in the past there was only few of them.	JH	1	ミョウ、ビョウ	たえ	
131	focus	TỈNH (tỉnh lại)	省	focus, few, eye	9	7	When we think of focusing on something, we usually take it in a metaphorical sense, though the literal sense is not far behind. It means to block out what is nonessential in order to fix our eye on a few important matters. The kanji suggests picking up a few things and holding them before one's eye in order to focus on them better.		You focus by concentrating your eye on fewer objects.	Success (or survival?) method for accelerated juggling course: focus on a few nitroglycerine filled juggling balls flying OVER your eyes ---(I have trouble with this few primitive that can be anywhere in a kanji. To build in its location in the story is important somehow).	4	2	セイ、ショウ	かえり.みる、はぶ.く	反省 (はんせい), 内省 (ないせい), 帰省 (きせい), 省みる (かえり.みる), 省く (はぶ.く)
132	thick	HẬU (Chiều dầy.)	厚	thick, cliff, sun, day, child	9	7	When we refer to someone as thick-skinned or thick-headed, we are usually quick to add - even if only under our breath - something about their upbringing. Perhaps it is because deep down we cherish the belief that by nature people are basically tender and sensitive. Be that as it may, the Japanese character for thick depicts a child abandoned out on the wild cliffs, exposed to the heat of the sun, and thus doomed to develop a head and skin as thick as the parent who left it there.		In Sparta we throw our Children over a Cliff. Under the Sun, they fight other Children. In the end, if they survive, they sure have thick skin.	The thick cliff walls protected the children from the sun.	5	2	コウ	あつ.い、あか	厚い (あつ.い)
133	strange	KỲ (kỳ lạ)	奇	strange, large, St. Bernard, can, mouth, street, nail, spike	8	7	"The elements we are given to work with here are St. Bernard dog and can. Lots of phrases pop to mind to attach these words to the key word, but they end up too abstract because of the word can. It is important in such cases (and there will be plenty of them as we go along) to stick closely to the elements, in this case, mouth and nails. Now all we need do is create a fictitious ""Strange But True"" column in the Sunday funnies, featuring a St. Bernard whose mouth has been nailed shut because he was hitting the brandy keg around his neck too hard."		I find it strange that so many people commit suicide in Tokyo by throwing themselves in front of the train. To me when I look at this kanji, I see a train just about to come out of a tunnel, and above the man waiting for his oppourtunity where he can end it all.	Imagine a ST. BERNARD DOG carrying a CAN instead of a barrel in rescue missions. How strange!	JH	1	キ	く.しき、あや.しい、くし、めずら.しい	
134	stream	XUYÊN. Nước trong núi dũa đất chảy ra gọi là xuyên. Nước chảy không lúc nào ngừng là thường xuyên.	川	stream, flood	3	8	We have taken the image of a river stream over into English to describe things that fall down in straight lines, or ripple along in lines. All of this is more than evident in the kanji given here, a pictograph of a stream.	* As a primitive, this character adds to the meaning of stream the more vivid image of a flood. Note, however, that there are certain small changes in the writing of the element, depending on where it appears relative to other elements: on the left, it is written the same. on the top, it is written with the three strokes more like less-then signs on the bottom, it is written with the third stroke similar to a fishhook	So as not to confuse this with river (#146) think of streamers falling down.	There are three default I/O Streams in UNIX, stdin, stdout, and stderr.	1	5	セン	かわ	川 (かわ)
135	state	CHÂU, ngày xưa nhân thấy có núi cao sông dài mới chia đất ra từng khu lấy núi sông làm mốc nên gọi là châu.	州	state, stream, flood, drops	6	8	Here we see drops of land (little islets) rising up out of a stream, creating a kind of sandbar or breakwater. Ever wonder how the state-line is drawn between states separated by a river? If there were little drops of land as in the kanji, there'd be nothing to it.		There were 3 little islands in the stream who all decided to set themselves up as independent states.	"シュウ　The original meaning of this character was ""sandbar"", and for me this conjures up images of the Mississippi River, which is very wide with many sandbars and which was used to define the borders in ten American states. Picture Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer floating by state after state as they adventure down the mighty Mississippi, occasionally beaching their raft on sandbars."	3	2	シュウ、ス	す	州 (す)
136	obey	THUẬN (Hoà thuận)	順	obey, stream, flood, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	8	"In primitive language, this character would read stream . . . head. And that turns out to be convenient for remembering its meaning of obey. Either one obeys the person who is head of an organization or else obeys by following the stream of opinion (""current"" practice, we call it). Both these senses come together in this kanji."		Obey, Obey! says the brain-washing scientist as he sends a stream of orders to fill your head.	Obey the orders streaming down from head office.	4	2	ジュン		
137	water	THUỶ	水	water	4	8	This character, which looks a bit like a snowflake, is actually a pictograph of water - not any particular body of water or movement of water, but simply the generic name for water. Should you have any difficulty remembering it, simply think of a walking stick being dropped vertically into the water, sending droplets out in all four directions. Then all you need to learn is how to write it in proper order.	* As a primitive, this character can keep its form, or it can be written with three drops to the left of another primitive. This latter, as we will see, is far more common.	The kanji for water is an abstract primitive itself, so unless one is willing to break down its etymological development, it should just simply be memorized by strokes; constructing a story is not necessarily useful unless it strongly denotes its shape (I find that Heisig´s story doesn´t do this).	"For those having issues with this* ""A 7K foot pool of water"" Notice it looks like a 7, and a K. Might have to practice writing it a few times."	1	5	スイ	みず、みず-	水 (みず)
138	icicle	Băng	氷	icicle, drop, water	5	8	The appearance of the primitive for water in its full form tells us that we have something to do with water here. The extra drop to the left, added as a second stroke, changes the picture from a splash caused by a walking stick dropped into water to form an icicle. If it helps, when you hold an icicle up to the light, you can usually see little crystallizations of five-pointed stars inside of it, which is the shape we have in this kanji.		Icicles start with 1 frozen drop of water. (I kept mistaking this with 'eternity') So Iciles start with one drop (drop down) of water	A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle.	3	2	ヒョウ	こおり、ひ、こお.る	氷 (こおり), 氷 (ひ)
139	eternity	Vĩnh (vĩnh viễn)	永	eternity, drop, water	5	8	"This kanji also uses the full form of water, though its meaning seems to have nothing at all to do with water. Remember what William Blake said about seeing ""infinity in a grain of sand and eternity in an hour""? Well, reading this character from top to bottom, we see ""eternity in a drop of water."""		It would take an eternity to count all the drops of water.	It takes but one drop from the most special water: the fountain of youth (and it is written in a special way to with an extra horizontal line on the top) to live for an eternity. (In order to remember that the drop is at the top, think that the drop must come from the topmost water in order for its effects to be true).	5	2	エイ	なが.い	永い (なが.い)
140	spring	TUYỀN, TOÀN (suối, nguồn)	泉	spring, white, dove, water	9	8	"Call to mind the image of a fresh, bubbling spring of water, and you will probably notice how the top of the spring you are thinking of, the part where the ""bubbling"" goes on, is all white. Happily, the white is just where it should be, at the top, and the water is at the bottom."	* We will keep this image of a spring when using this kanji as a primitive, but not without first drawing attention to a slight change that distinguishes the primitive from the kanji. The final 4 strokes (the element for water) are abbreviated to the three small drops that we learned earlier as the kanji for little.	White is a symbol of purety, so white water is pure water, the precise definition of spring water.	Perhaps the most common appearance of this kanji is in the word 温泉 (おんせん, onsen), a Japanese hot spring. The kanji is an excellent image of someone enjoying a Japanese hot spring: a little white towel on top, water below. (This helps keep all associations: spring, little and onsen).	6	2	セン	いずみ	泉 (いずみ)
142	meadow	NGUYÊN. Cánh đồng. Chỗ đất bằng phẳng gọi là nguyên. Như bình nguyên: đồng bằng, cao nguyên: đồng cao, v.v. Nơi đất ở giữa cả nước gọi là trung nguyên .	原	meadow, cliff, spring, white, dove, small, little	10	8	"Though the kanji is broad enough to embrace both meanings, the meadow you should imagine here is not a flatland plain but a mountain meadow in the Austrian Alps. (Perhaps the opening scene of ""The Sound of Music"" will help.) Simply think of little springs bubbling up across the meadow to form a sort of path that leads you right to the brink of a precipitous cliff. Now if you can see Schwester Maria skipping along merrily, dodging in and out of the springs, and then falling headlong over the cliff, you have a ridiculous story that should help fix this kanji in memory."		"Forget about ""spring"" because the water primitive is abbreviated to ""little"". This is easy to forget by the time you've finished RTK1. Instead, imagine standing on an exceedingly high cliff. Not overlooking the sea, but overlooking meadows. And what on earth are those white little things? Wow, they're sheep! This cliff must be really high!"	Sorry about this, but Heisig was stupid calling this kanji meadow, used in composite words the most common meaning is ORIGIN... To remember just think that life may have begun in pounds or springs in a land with many cliffs ... Just to answer correctly the review lessons think of meadow as the origin of a huge forest.	2	3	ゲン	はら	原 (はら)
143	petition	NGUYỆN. Muốn. Lòng mong cầu gọi là tâm nguyện	願	petition, meadow, cliff, white, dove, small, little, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	19	8	A meadow and a head are all we are given to work with in the kanji for petition. Since the key word already suggests something like a formal request made of some higher power, let us imagine a gigantic Wizard-of-Oz head located in the middle of the flowery meadow we used in the last frame. Then just picture people kneeling hopefully before it, petitioning for whatever it is they want. (The scarecrow wanted brains, the lion, courage, and the tin man a heart. What about you?)		Let´s petition to save that beautiful MEADOW from overdevelopment by signing on this PAGE.	"Japanese hippies PETITION to save a meadow by getting people on the street to sign their page - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”."	4	3	ガン	ねが.う、-ねがい	願う (ねが.う)
144	swim	VỊNH. Lặn, đi ngầm dưới đáy nước.	泳	swim, water, water droplets, water pistol, eternity	8	8	The primitive to the left, you will recall from Frame 137, represents water. To the right, we see the kanji for eternity. Knowing how much children like swimming, what could be a better image of eternal bliss than an endless expanse of water to swim in without a care in the world?		With that much WATER (2 actually) you would need to swim for an ETERNITY.	If you don´t know how to swim, you´ll be in that water for eternity.	3	3	エイ	およ.ぐ	泳ぐ (およ.ぐ)
145	marsh	CHIỂU. Cái ao hình cong	沼	marsh, water, water droplets, water pistol, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth	8	8	Unlike the meadow with its cliffs, the marshlands are low and near a source of water that feeds them until they get soggy through and through. Why certain land becomes marshy is probably due to the fact that it felt thirsty, and so tried its best to seduce the water over to its side. But, like most inordinate seductions, the last state of the victim is worse than the first. Hence the slushy marsh.		The marshlands near Mordor seduce Frodo into gazing upon them, and he falls into the water--splash!	A marsh is where water is seduced into the ground.	JH	1	ショウ	ぬま	沼 (ぬま)
146	open sea	TRÙNG	沖	open sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, in, stick, mouth	7	8	"This kanji could hardly be simpler. The key word open sea readily suggests being out in the middle of a great body of water .Thinking of it in this way should avoid confusion with the kanji for ""open,"" which we will meet later on."		Open sea is a lot of water in the middle of nowhere.	Water in the middle of the ocean is referred to as open sea.	JH	1	チュウ	おき、おきつ、ちゅう.する、わく	沖 (おき)
148	creek	GIANG	江	creek, water, water droplets, water pistol, craft	6	8	Unlike the river, the ocean, the lake, and the pond, the creek is often no more then a dribble of water trickling down a small gully. While the geological history of the larger bodies of water is hard to surmise sometimes, all of us know from our childhood how creeks are made. You probably even dug one or two in your time. All you need to do is find a mainstream of water somewhere and dig a little path into dry land. The creek is thus a lesson in water-craft, as this kanji would agree.		A CREEK is a small trail of water easily crafted with a stick.	Creeks are small water, easily crossed with a simple i-beam.	JH	1	コウ	え	江 (え)
150	soup	TRẤP. Nước, nhựa. Vật gì có nước lỏng chảy ra gọi là trấp.	汁	soup, water, water droplets, water pistol, ten, needle	5	8	"To make soup, one begins with water and then starts adding things to it, often leftovers from the icebox. This is how the thick soup or stew called ""seven-in-one"" is made. This kanji does it three better, giving us a ten-ingredient soup."		To make soup you just take water and add (+) the rest of your ingredients.	To make soup you just take water and add ten tasty ingredients.	JH	1	ジュウ	しる、-しる、つゆ	汁 (しる)
152	tide	TRIỀU (Thuỷ triều)	潮	tide, water, water droplets, water pistol, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2	15	8	Before we get to explaining this character, take a look at it and see if you can figure out the primitive elements on your own.... On the left is the water - that much is easy. On the right we have only one primitive, the kanji for morning learned back in Frame 53. See how an apparently complex kanji falls apart neatly into manageable pieces? To get the meaning of the key word tide, just think of it in connection with the character for eventide that we learned back in Frame 115. Here we have the morning-tide, its complement. By the way, if you missed the question about the number of primitives, it is probably because you forgot what we said earlier about kanji becoming primitives, independently of the pieces that make them up. As a rule, look for the largest kanji you can write and proceed from there to primitives stranded on their own.		The morning tide is basically, well, WATER in the MORNING.	This is not the eventide, but the water of the morning tide.	6	1	チョウ	しお、うしお	潮 (しお)
153	source	NGUYÊN (nguồn nước)	源	source, water, water droplets, water pistol, meadow, cliff, sun, day, small, little	13	8	"With the advice of the last frame in mind, it is easy to see water and meadow in this character for source. Both in its etymology (it has a common parent with the word ""surge"") and in popular usage, source suggests the place water comes from. In this kanji, it is under the meadow, where we just saw it breaking the surface in those bubbly little springs."		The water that flows from the meadow is the source of life for the wild antelope.	The source of clean water is from the meadow (#134): it comes from that spring at the bottom of the cliff. Pay no attention to Julie Andrews lying face down in spring. The water´s clean. Trust me.	6	1	ゲン	みなもと	源 (みなもと)
154	lively	HOẠT (Sinh hoạt)	活	lively, water, water droplets, water pistol, tongue, drop, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	9	8	When we speak of a lively personality or a lively party, we immediately think of a lot of chatter. This kanji depicts the idea of lively by having tongues babble and splash around like flowing water.		"Conversations can become more lively after everyone has had a few drinks. It´s because ""watery tongues"" loosen lips!"	I´m sure I can get her pretty lively and wet using my tongue.	2	3	カツ	い.きる、い.かす、い.ける	
155	extinguish	TIÊU (Tiêu hoá)	消	extinguish, water, water droplets, water pistol, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	10	8	Among the many things water is useful for is extinguishing fires, and that is just what we have here. First of all, take the water at the left as the drops of water that are used to depict water in general. In the best of all possible worlds, the most efficient way to extinguish a fire would be to see that each drop of water hits one spark of the conflagration. An unthinkable bit of utopian fire fighting, you say to yourself, but helpful for assigning this key word its primitives.		To extinguish a SPARK, you need WATER.	You need a few drops of water to extinguish the candle.	3	3	ショウ	き.える、け.す	消える (き.える), 消す (け.す)
156	but of course	HUỐNG. Phương chi, huống hồ, dùng làm chữ giúp lời. Như hà huống, huống chi.	況	but of course, water, water droplets, water pistol, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	8	8	"This key word is a connector used to link contrasting phrase sand sentences together with much the same flavor as the English phrase but of course. Just picture yourself ready to go off on your first date as a teenager, and having your mother grill you about your manners and ask you embarrassing questions about your hygiene. ""Did you have a good shower?"" ""But of course,"" you reply, annoyed. So water and teenager combine to give us but of course."		"If you ask your teenager if what he´s drinking is water (and not Vodka), he will answer ""but of course""."	"キョウ But of course, this character really means ""situation/condition"". ""Elder brother gulped some water and said, ´What the hell was Heisig´s mental CONDITION when he came up with this definition? Heisig must have a drinking CONDITION. But of course, if Heisig sticks to water, rather than sake (like me, water quaffing, situation assessing, sober elder brother), his SITUATION may improve.´""　[MODEL COMPOUND: 状況　(じょうきょう)　state of affairs; conditions]."	JH	2	キョウ	まし.て、いわ.んや、おもむき	
157	river	Hà	河	river, water, water droplets, water pistol, can, street, nail, spike, mouth	8	8	"The character in this frame represents a step up from the stream we met in Frame 134; it is a full-sized river. The water to the left tells us what we are dealing with, and the can at the right tells us that our ""little engine that could"" has now become amphibious and is chugging down the Mighty Mississip' like a regular riverboat."		A river CAN exist only if there is WATER.	I kept confusing this with stream. My Japanese friend said that to him this is for an artificial river. Looking at kanji compounds with this there are two that struck me: One is the Yellow River in China (黄河), and the other is the Milky Way (銀河). Now I either think of the Little Engine that could dragging a bunch of stuff down a river in China and polluting it (so it turned yellow) or I see the Little Engine that Could flying across the sky making the Milky Way.	5	2	カ	かわ	河 (かわ)
158	overnight	BẠC. Phàm đỗ nghỉ vào đâu đều gọi là bạc. Như phiêu bạc.	泊	overnight, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove	8	8	When you stop at an inn for an overnight rest, all you expect is a bit of water for a wash and a set of clean white sheets to wrap your weary bones in.		Please supply a guest who stays overnight with WATER and WHITE sheets.	When I go to an OVERNIGHT party, all I need is a bit of water and some of that hard white. (crack). (not really, but come on. much easier to recall than white sheets).	JH	2	ハク	と.まる、と.める	泊まる (と.まる), 泊める (と.める)
159	lake	HỒ	湖	lake, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncivilized, zombie, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	12	8	Water . . . old . . . flesh. You have heard of legends of people being abandoned in the mountains when they had become too old to work. Well, here is a legend about people being set adrift in the waters of a stormy lake because their flesh had gotten too old to bear the burdens of life.		This is my favorite story. Simply associate the sad moment of an OLD person, standing near the WATER of the lake and looking at the MOON reflected in the lake. The created primitives themselves are put so beautifully, that you will not forget this kanji.	Water reflects the old moon in the lake.	3	2	コ	みずうみ	湖 (みずうみ)
160	fathom	TRẮC (Đo chiều sâu, nói rộng ra phàm sự đo lường đều gọi là trắc cả. Như bất trắc: không lường được.)	測	fathom, water, water droplets, water pistol, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber	12	8	"Connoting the measurement of the depth of water, the keyword fathom begins with the water primitive. To its right, we see the compound-primitive for rule (Frame 92) which we learned in the sense of a ""ruler"" or ""measure."" Hence, when we rule water we fathom it. What could be simpler? But be careful; its simplicity is deceptive. Be sure to picture yourself fathoming a body of water several hundred feet deep by using a ruler of gargantuan proportions."		A fathom is the unit you use when making rules about water´s depth.	You can´t fathom how deep this water is. Perhaps you should use a ruler to measure it?	5	2	ソク	はか.る	測る (はか.る)
161	soil	THỔ, ĐỘ, ĐỖ	土	soil, dirt, ground	3	8	I don't like it any more than you do, but this kanji is not the pictograph it is trumped up to be: a mound of soil piled on the ground. All I can recommend is that you memorize it as it is. Anyway, it will be occurring with such frequency that you have almost no chance of forgetting it, even if you try.	* As a primitive, the sense of soil is extended to that of ground because of its connection with the kanji for the same (Frame 554). From there it also takes the added meanings of dirt and land.	Remembering soil is easy. If soil is soft, you can take a walking stick and plunge it two* feet into the ground.	King Arthur pulled the magical sword Excalibur out of the hardened soil to claim his place as king.	1	5	ド、ト	つち	土木 (どぼく), 国土 (こくど), 粘土 (ねんど), 土 (つち)
162	spit	THỔ (Thổ ra, thổ lộ)	吐	spit, mouth, soil, dirt, ground	6	8	We have here a rather small mouth (it is always compressed when set on the left) next to a much larger piece of dirt. It is not hard to imagine what you might do if you got a mouth full of dirt. As least I know what I would do: spit it out as fast and far as I could!		The only things that come out of my MOUTH and onto the GROUND are spit and vomit. Everything else (words, song) floats on the air.	SPIT goes from my MOUTH to the GROUND.	JH	1	ト	は.く、つ.く	吐く (は.く)
163	PRESSURE	ÁP	圧	pressure, cliff, soil, dirt, ground	5	8	One of the things that causes the erosion of soil is the excessive pressure of the topsoil on the lower soil. This can be caused by any number of things from heavy rainfall to heavy buildings to the absence of sufficient deep-rooted vegetation to hold the layers together. Here we see a steep cliff without a tree in sight. The slightest pressure on it will cause a landslide, which, with a little help from your imagination, you will be able to see happening in this character.		The GROUND at the base of a CLIFF must suffer from enormous pressure.	For physics people: p = F/A (p:pressure, F:Force, A:Area). Where the force is from the immensity of the cliff. The area on the cliff is covered by soil. So the equation becomes p = F/A = cliff/soil which preserves the position of the primitives.	5	2	アツ、エン、オウ	お.す、へ.す、おさ.える、お.さえる	
164	cape	KÌ (Mũi đất (nhô ra biển))	埼	cape, soil, dirt, ground, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth	11	8	The cape pictured here is a jut of land like Cape Cod. The soil on the left tells us we have to do with land, and the strange on the right tells us it is a cape where unusual things go on. Put a haunted house on it, an eerie sky overhead, and a howling wind rustling through the trees, and you have yourself a picture of Cape Strange (or, if you prefer, Cape Odd).		This refers to LAND, not the STRANGE gear superheroes wear.	"Cape Cod ""odd"" is a land where odd=strange things happen."	JH		キ	さき、さい、みさき	埼 (さい)
165	hedge	VIÊN (Tường thấp, sở quan)	垣	hedge, soil, dirt, ground, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one	9	8	The hedge depicted in this frame is the miraculous hedge of briar roses that completely spanned the castle grounds in which Sleeping Beauty lay for a hundred years, so that none but her predestined beloved could find his way through it.		Before the Great Wall of China, there was a dirt hedge that spanned across.	The HEDGE of roses growing from the castle grounds fully spanned the castle walls.	JH	1	エン	かき	垣 (かき)
167	squared jewel	KHUÊ (Ngọc khuê)	圭	square jewel, ivy, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	6	8	Now I am going to do something unusual. The character in this frame is going to get one meaning and the primitive another, with no relation at all between the two. In time, I hope you will see how helpful this is. The kanji key word, square jewel, depicts a mammoth precious stone, several feet high, made by piling up large heaps of soil on top of one another. Not something you would want to present your betrothed on your wedding day, but a good image for remembering this rare character, used chiefly in personal names nowadays.	"* As a primitive, we shall use this character to mean ivy, that creepy vegetation that covers the surface of the ground to form a sort of ""second"" ground that can get somewhat tricky to walk on without tripping."	Piling SOIL upon SOIL for aeons is how SQUARE JEWELS are formed deep in the earth.	How would you stop someone stealing your biggest square jewel? Bury it deep in the soil under ground. Then plant ivy to mark the spot.	Names	1	ケイ、ケ		
168	seal	PHONG (Phong ấn)	封	seal, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, glue, soil2, dirt2, ground2	9	8	Think of the key word seal as referring to a letter you have written and are preparing to close. Instead of using the traditional wax seal, you glue a sprig of ivy on the outside. In this way the elements ivy and glue give you a curious and memorable way to seal your secret letters.		The king used a special seal of ivy leaves glued onto his document.	A bit of ivy glued to a letter can make a lovely SEAL when in a pinch, says Martha Stewart.	JH	2	フウ、ホウ		封鎖 (ふうさ), 封書 (ふうしょ), 密封 (みっぷう)
169	horizon	NHAI (Bờ bến. Cái gì vô cùng vô tận gọi là vô nhai)	涯	horizon, water, water droplets, water pistol, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	11	8	"After seeing a constant horizon of water, water everywhere for months at sea, could there be anything more delightful to the eyes than to look astern and see the ivy-clad cliffs of land on a new horizon? Of course, you'd need the eyes of a stellar telescope to recognize that the vegetation was in fact ivy, but the phrase ""ivy-clad cliffs"" has such a nice ring to it that we won't worry about such details."		Try to reverse Heisig´s story in this Kanji: imagine being trapped in one of those prison towers on an ivy cladcliff like in the movies. From your prison ontop the ivy clad cliff all you can see in the distant horizon is nothing but water.	From the water, I can see the ivy-clad-cliffs on the horizon.	JH	1	ガイ	はて	
170	Buddhist temple	TỰ (Chùa, chỗ sư ở)	寺	buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	6	8	"You have heard of people ""attaching"" themselves to a particular sect? Here is your chance to take that metaphor literally and imagine some fellow walking into a Buddhist temple with a fervent resolve to attach himself to the place. Since there is plenty of unused land around the precincts, he simply picks out a suitable patch, brushes the soles of his feet with glue, steps down firmly, and so joins the Buddhist temple as a ""permanent member."""		At the Buddhist temple the monks are seated on the ground, glued there in meditation.	To be allowed to join the Buddhist temple, imagine an aspiring monk being asked to stand still in the soil for a long time in a measurement of his resolve.	2	2	ジ	てら	寺 (てら)
171	time	THỜI (Thời gian)	時	time, sun, day, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	10	8	"""What is time?"" asked St. Augustine in his memoirs. ""Ask me not, and I know. Ask me, and I cannot tell you."" Here we have the kanji's answer to that perennial riddle. Time is a sun rising over a Buddhist temple. It sounds almost like a Zen kōan whose repetition might yield some deep secret to the initiated. At any rate, imagining a monk seated in meditation pondering it might help us remember the character."		When the SUN starts to shine on the TEMPLE, it´s time to get up.	In ancient Japan, TIME of ´´day´´ was announced at the ´´buddhist temples´´. They did this by ringing large iron bells. This is similar to churches who ring their bells to announce the time of day.	2	5	ジ	とき、-どき	時 (とき)
172	level	QUÂN (Quân tử)	均	level, soil, dirt, ground, ladle, drop, drop2	7	8	The level this key word refers to is not the carpenter's tool but rather the even surface of a thing. It pictures soil being scooped up into a ladle and then made level (apparently because one is measuring soil). The excess drops of soil are brushed off the top, which accounts for the added drop at the ladle's edge.		Soil is scooped up into a ladel. The extra drop is brushed off to make it level.	To remember the extra stroke in the ladle, make a vivid image of a big drop of excess soil fr0m the ladle falling out onto the ground when you level it.	5	2	キン	なら.す	
173	fire	HOẢ	火	fire	4	8	Just as sitting before a fire enlivens the imagination and lets you see almost anything you want to in the flames, this kanji is so simple it lets you see almost any sort of fire you want to see. It no longer makes a good pictograph, but I invite you to take a pencil and paper and play with the form - first writing it as shown below and then adding lines here and there - to see what you can come up with. Everything from matchbooks to cigarette lighters to volcanic eruptions to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah have been found here. No doubt you, too, will find something interesting to bend your memory around these four simple strokes.	* To avoid confusion later on, it is best to keep to the meaning of a fireplace (or hearth) or a raging conflagration like a forest fire for this kanji's primitive meaning. Another primitive element for fire, based on this one, is written as 4 small drops and will mean flames, cauldron, cooking fire, or an oven fire.	For some reason, this kanji reminds me of a person running, her arms (the two drops) raised up, because she caught on fire!	A tepee getting shot at by fire arrows.	1	5	カ	ひ、-び、ほ-	火 (ひ)
174	inflammation	VIÊM (Bốc cháy, ngọn lửa, viêm nhiệt)	炎	inflammation, fire, fire2	8	8	A fire belongs IN the hearth, not OVER it. When the fire spreads to the rest of the house, we have an inflamed house. And as with any inflammation - including those that attack our bodies - the danger is always that it might spread if not checked. This is the sense behind the reduplication of element for fire, one atop the other.		To fight fire with fire would just inflame a situation.	An inflammation can often feel like FIRE upon FIRE burning.	JH	1	エン	ほのお	炎 (ほのお)
175	anxiety	PHIỀN (Phiền muộn)	煩	anxiety, fire, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	8	The existential condition of anxiety that arises from the inevitable frustration of our worldly passions is contained in this character. The head is set afire, causing deep torment of spirit (and a whopper of a headache).		An anxiety feels like FIRE in the HEAD.	"Many performers get ""Michael Jackson anxiety"" wherein they fear their head will catch on fire."	JH	1	ハン、ボン	わずら.う、わずら.わす	煩雑 (はんざつ), 煩う (わずら.う), 煩わす (わずら.わす)
176	thin	ĐẠM (Đạm bạc)	淡	thin, water, water droplets, water pistol, inflammation, fire, fire2	11	8	The primitives in this kanji read: water . . . inflammation. Taking inflammation in its medical sense, the first water-related inflammation that pops into mind is dehydration, the principal symptom of which is that it makes one shrivel up and look very, very thin. If that is hard to remember, try thinking it backwards: a very thin chap passes by and you imagine him suffering from (being inflamed with) dehydration (hence the element for water).		Drink water and burn twice as many calories as you eat... you´ll definitely get thin. Imagine inside your body, all those calories literally being burned from above and below... THAT´s what it takes to become thin.	Thin girls are twice as hot when they´re wet.	JH	1	タン	あわ.い	淡い (あわ.い)
177	lamp	Đăng (Ngọn hải đăng)	灯	lamp, fire, street, nail, spike	6	8	Since it is very hard to read by the fireplace without going blind from the flickering of the flames or burning up from the heat, our ancestors invented a way to nail down a bit of that fire, just enough to light up the text of their evening newspapers and no more. Voilà! The lamp.		Imagine old gas lamps which had a flame to light up the street signs.	A lamp is fire you can hang from a nail.	4	2	トウ	ひ、ほ-、ともしび、とも.す、あかり	灯 (ひ)
178	farm	VƯỜN	畑	farm, fire, rice field, brains	9	8	Looking at the primitives, a fireplace and a rice field, we find the essential ingredients for a farm: a warm hearth to sit by at night, and a well-plowed field to grow one's crops in by day.		Many farms are created by first setting FIRE over the land to clear the land for the FIELDS.	When creating a farm, the prospective farmer must first set fire to the forest to clear the ground. Only then can he plow the fields. Fire before fields to make a farm.	3			はた、はたけ、-ばたけ	畑 (はた), 畑 (はたけ)
179	disaster	TAI (Tai hoạ)	災	disaster, stream, flood, fire	7	8	Of all of nature's disasters, this kanji picks out two of the worst: floods and fires. To recall the disposition of the elements, think of nature's solution to nature's own problem: a great flood pouring down over a great forest fire.		What a disaster! First a FIRE, then on top of it came FLOODs.	Don´t know about Japan, but here in Australia, flooding rivers and bushfires are the most common natural disasters.	5	1	サイ	わざわ.い	災い (わざわ.い)
180	ashes	HÔI	灰	ashes, cliff, fire	6	8	The kanji for ashes naturally includes the primitive for fire, or more specifically, a fireplace. Now what do you do with that bucket of ashes you have just cleaned out of the fireplace? You walk to the edge of a cliff and tip it upside down, watching as they are swept away in the wind like a swarm of gray mosquitoes. Thus the fire, once it has turned to ashes, ends up at the bottom of the cliff.		The fire underneath the cliff will eventually turn everything above to ashes.	"Scene from ""The Big Lebowski"" : Walter scatters Donny´s ashes, but a wind blows much of the ashes into ""The Dude"" Lebowski´s face. Upset, The Dude lashes out at Walter. Walter apologizes and hugs The Dude, before suggesting ""Fuck it, man. Let´s go bowling."" I bet you that The Dude wanted to cremate (fire) Walter right there and then, at the top of the cliff! (thanks Elktapestry)."	6	2	カイ	はい	灰 (はい)
181	spot	ĐIỂM	点	spot, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue	9	8	If you look into the flickering of a fire for a long time and then turn aside, you will see spots before your eyes. Although nobody ever thought of such a thing before - as least as far as know, they didn't - imagine using those spots as a technique for fortune-telling. The old witch sits before her cauldron and watches the spots that show up when she turns to look at you, and from that tells your fortune. Think of it as a kind of spot-check on your future.		The FORTUNE TELLER was burned by FLAMES on the spot because she was accused of being a witch.	You have to stimulate the G-spot with your magic wand in order to get her on fire. Or you can juste use your mouth...	2	3	テン	つ.ける、つ.く、た.てる、さ.す、とぼ.す、とも.す、ぼち	
182	illuminate	CHIẾU (Soi sáng)	照	illuminate, shining, sun, day, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue	13	8	Although the range of possible meanings that the kanji for illuminate can have is about as rich as the connotations of the English word, we need to focus on just one of them: to make something shine. If you glaze a pot and put it into the oven to fire it, you in fact illuminate it. Hence the kanji for illuminate compares the kanji for shining with the primitive element for the oven's fire.		SHINING FLAMES illuminate!	The sun was seduced to give us fire, by which we illuminate the night.	4	2	ショウ	て.る、て.らす、て.れる	照らす (て.らす), 照る (て.る), 照れる (て.れる)
183	fish	NGƯ (Kình ngư)	魚	fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue	11	8	The composition of this kanji shows three elements, which we list in the order of their writing: bound up . . . rice field . . . cooking fire. Not much to work with at first sight. But we can join them together by thinking of a three-part story: first a fish is caught and bound up on a line with its unfortunate school-mates; when the fisherman gets home, he cuts off the head and tosses it, with the entrails, out into the rice fields for fertilizer; and the rest he sets in a skillet over a cooking fire for his supper.		The elements of this kanji are bound up, rice field and cooking fire. When I think of bound up cooked rice, it makes me think of sushi, which in turn brings to mind fish.	Bind that FISH and cook his brains! Yarhh!	2	4	ギョ	うお、さかな、-ざかな	魚 (うお), 魚 (さかな)
184	fishing	NGƯ (Ngư nghiệp)	漁	fishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue	14	8	To the story we have just made about fish, this kanji for the profession of fishing adds yet another element BEFORE the others: namely the water, where the fish was happily at home before being caught, disemboweled, and eaten. Be sure to get a clear image of the water when you put it all together.		You need WATER and FISH for fishing.	If you are confusing this with angling like me, take fishing to mean not the act of catching a fish but the act of being a fish not living but fishing (i.e. in the water).	4	2	ギョ、リョウ	あさ.る	漁業 (ぎょぎょう), 漁船 (ぎょせん), 漁村 (ぎょそん)
185	ri House of the Parents.	DẶM (360 bước là một dặm.)	里	ri, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground	7	9	"That's right - a ri. Don't bother looking it up in your English dictionary; it's a Japanese word for measuring distances. One ri is about 4 kilometers or 2.5 miles. The kanji depicts how the measure came to be used. Atop we see the rice field, and below the element for land. Those four sections you see in the rice field (and which we made mention of when first we introduced the character in frame 14) are actually measurements of land, much the same as farm-sections in the United States have given us the notion of a ""country mile."" The land division based on the size of a rice field is called a ri."	* To get a more concrete primitive meaning for this kanji, we shall refer to it as a computer, a meaning deriving from the kanji for logic, which we will meet in Lesson 12.	The ri is a Japanese way of measuring the area of the GROUND underneath a RICE FIELD.	Hint: Heisig makes here a severe disservice to everyone by using a weird keyword for this character. You´ll save a lot (and I mean, a whole lot) of trouble later by giving it instead its intended meaning: House of the Parents.	2		リ	さと	里 (さと)
186	black	HẮC	黒	black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue	11	9	Like most things electrical, a computer, too, can overheat. Just imagine flames pouring out of it and charring the keyboard, the monitor, and your desk a sooty black color.		If you burn the GROUND of a RICE FIELD with FIRE, eventually it will turn black.	If your parent´s home catches on fire, it will turn black.	2	4	コク	くろ、くろ.ずむ、くろ.い	黒 (くろ), 黒い (くろ.い)
187	black ink	MỰC, MẶC	墨	black ink, black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue	14	9	Besides meaning black ink, this kanji also appears in the word for an inked string that is pulled taut and snapped to mark a surface, much the same as one might used a chalked string. Here it is used to mark off the dirt with black lines for a foot ballgame (played, I presume, on a white field).		Theres BLACK on the GROUND...most likely someone spilt some black ink.	Anyone who has worked with laserjet ink cartridges will know the black ink looks like powdered dirt.	JH	1	ボク	すみ	墨 (すみ)
188	carp	LÍ (Cá chép)	鯉	carp, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, computer	18	9	"These are the same carp you see in Japanese ""carp streamers."" Only here we find a small home computer or two strung on the line by a father anxious for his son not only to have the courage and determination of a carp swimming upstream, but also the efficiency and memory of a computer. Ugh."		Japanese carp are massive fish - they are measured in ri!	The fish got carpal tunnel syndrome from the computer(I know it´s lame but it´s hard to find a good story for this).	Names	1	リ	こい	
189	quantity	LƯỢNG, LƯƠNG	量	quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer	12	9	Think of quantity as having to do with measuring time and distance, and the rest is simple: you have a quantity of time in the new day that begins with nightbreak, and a quantity of distance in the rural ri.		I did such a quantity of work that when NIGHT BREAK came, I was asleep on the COMPUTER.	If you find that by nightbreak, you´re still playing at your computer, chances are your World of Warcraft character has a high quantity of levels. [thanks to ssmoler] ..... To remember that nightbreak appears ABOVE computer, think of looking UP from your computer at the window to realize you´ve been playing until nightbreak.	4	2	リョウ	はか.る	量る (はか.る)
190	rin	LI (sai một li đi một dặm)	厘	rin, cliff, computer	9	9	"No doubt you will find it in your heart to forgive me for forcing yet another Japanese word on you in this frame. It is not the last time it will happen in this book, but I can assure you they are used only when absolutely necessary. One rin is equal to about 1/1000 of a yen - or rather was worth that much when it still made economic sense to mint them. While inflation took its toll on this kanji as a monetary unit, it survived with the not at all surprising sense of something ""very, very tiny."" The kanji shows a cliff with a computer under it, apparently because it has been pushed over into the abyss by someone fed up with the thing. The total market value of one home computer that has fallen over rock and bramble for several hundred feet: about one rin!"		I threw my Rindows computer off a cliff because it kept crashing. Now, after its last crash, it´s worth less than a rin.	A computer dropped off of a cliff would be worth about 1 RIN.	JH	1	リン		
191	bury	MAI (Mai táng)	埋	bury, soil, dirt, ground, computer	10	9	"When we speak of burying something (or someone, for that matter), we usually mean putting them under ground. Only here, we are burying our beloved computer that has served us so well these past years. Behind us a choir chants the ""Dies irae, dies illa"" and there is much wailing and grief among the bystanders as they pass by to shovel a little dirt into what will be its final resting place. R.I.P."		You can´t bury computers underground, because of the dangerous heavy metals, so you hide them behind an equally large mound of soil and hope no-one notices.	I used SOIL to BURY my COMPUTER.	JH	2	マイ	う.める、う.まる、う.もれる、うず.める、うず.まる、い.ける	埋まる (う.まる), 埋める (う.める), 埋もれる (う.もれる)
192	same	ĐỒNG	同	same, monks, hood, one, mouth	6	9	"The primitives in this kanji show us one and mouth under a hood. Let us take the key word to connote the sameness that characterizes the life in community of the monk. They all have the same habits, including the ""habit"" they wear on their backs. Here we see the monk's cowl, drawn down over the eyes so that all you can see when you look at him is a mouth. But since monks also speak their prayers in common, it is but a short step to think of one mouth under a hood as the kanji for the sameness of monastic life."	* As a primitive, this will mean monks dressed in a common habit.	Muslim women wearing veils (HOOD) all look the same, you can just see ONE MOUTH and very little else.	Imagine monks wandering around the monastery. Covered in their hoods and chanting as if with one mouth they all look the same !	2	4	ドウ	おな.じ	同じ (おな.じ)
193	den	ĐỘNG (hang sâu)	洞	den, water, water droplets, water pistol, same, monks, hood, one, mouth	9	9	"The key word den refers to an animal lair hollowed out in the side of a mountain. Now if we keep to the image of the monastic life as an image for same, we can picture a den of wild beasts dressed up in habits and living the common life in a mountain cavern. To bring in the element of water we need only give them a sacred ""puddle"" in the center of their den, the focus of all their pious attentions."		All the animals in the den share the same water.	"Den and ""cave"" also make me think of a monk´s cell. Monks take vows of silence and fast. So a den is where you´d find nothing but water (to drink) and a monk."	JH	1	ドウ	ほら	洞 (ほら)
194	trunk	ĐỖNG (Cái thân người, từ cổ xuống đến bẹn, trừ chân tay ra)	胴	trunk, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, same, monks, hood, one, mouth	10	9	"The word trunk refers to the part of the body that is left when you have ""truncated"" all the limbs. I can hardly think of any reason for doing so, unless one were lumberjacking corpses and needed to have them all properly pruned and made the same so they could be floated downstream without causing a body-jam."		A trunk, a trunk // The body of a monk // The body of a monk in a trunk, a trunk.	Dead flesh all looks the same when you chop off everything but the trunk. Yes, I´m appalled at how gruesome this story is too.	JH	1	ドウ		
195	yonder	HƯỚNG (xu hướng)	向	yonder, alien, drop, helmet, hood, mouth	6	9	"Something referred to as ""over yonder"" is usually far off in the distance and barely within sight - like a wee drop in the distance - and is usually an expression used in giving directions or pointing something out. Hence this kanji begins with a drop. Then we find a sort of transparent helmet with no eyes or nose, but only a prominent mouth under it, obviously an extraterrestrial. And what is it jabbering on about with its mouth open like that? Why, about his spaceship way over yonder with its fuel tank on empty."		Look over yonder ! That tiny dot is robin hood at the mouth of his secret cave !	There was an old woman named Wanda,// Who wanted to make herself blonder.// She covered her くち// With a glass hood from Gucci// And dropped some hair dye on from yonder.	3	3	コウ	む.く、む.い、-む.き、む.ける、-む.け、む.かう、む.かい、む.こう、む.こう-、むこ、むか.い	向かう (む.かう), 向く (む.く), 向ける (む.ける), 向こう (む.こう)
196	esteem	THƯỢNG (Cao thượng, thượng thư)	尚	esteem, small, little, alien, glass canopy, hood, mouth	8	9	Above we see the primitive for little attached to one of those glass canopies you might use to display a family heirloom. The littleness is important, because what is in fact on display is the shrunken, stuffed, and mounted mouth of an esteemed ancestor. We may be used to esteeming the words our forebears leave behind, but here we also esteem the very mouth that spoke them. I leave it to you to imagine a suitable place in your room for displaying such an unusual conversation piece.		An especially esteemed alien has three antennae on his helmet.	Remember that scene from Star Wars, where Luke is wearing that helmet that only his mouth could see, and was swinging at that little thing buzzing around the room? That was Obi-Wan´s trick to get Luke to build his self-esteem, or his confidence in the Force.	JH	1	ショウ	なお	
197	character	TỰ ()	字	character, house, child	6	9	Here is the character for character itself. Not just kanji, but any written character from hieroglyphs to Sanskrit to our own Roman alphabet. It shows us simply a child in a house. But let us take advantage of the double-meaning of the key word to note that just as a child born to a Japanese house is given characters for its name, so it is also stamped with the character of those who raise it from infancy on.		"Why do I have to wear this roof on my head all the time father? ""Shut up! It builds character!""."	CHILDren learn Kanji characters underneath a HOUSE.	1	4	ジ	あざ、あざな、-な	字 (あざ)
198	guard	THỦ, THÚ (bảo thủ)	守	guard, house, glue	6	9	The notion of guarding something easily brings to mind the image of someone standing guard, like the royal soldiers in front of Buckingham Palace or the Pope's Swiss Guard. The whole idea of hiring guards is that they should stick like glue to your house to protect it from unwanted prowlers. So go ahead and glue a guard to your house in imagination.		"A GUARD is usually ""glued"" to the house he watches."	A guard provides a measure of security to those under a roof.	3	3	シュ、ス	まも.る、まも.り、もり、-もり、かみ	守備 (しゅび), 保守 (ほしゅ), 攻守 (こうしゅ), 守る (まも.る), 守 (もり)
199	perfect	HOÀN	完	perfect, house, beginning, two, human legs	7	9	"In order not to confuse the key word perfect with others nearly synonymous in meaning, pull it apart to have a look at its native Latin roots. Per-factum suggests something so ""thoroughly made or done"" that nothing more needs to be added to it. Now look at the kanji, which does something similar. We see a house that has been made perfectly from its beginnings in the foundation to the roof on the top. Now return to frame 101 and make sure not to confuse this key word with the kanji for complete."		Make the perfect impression in the beginning by removing your shoes upon entering a Japanese home.	In the beginning, Adam and Eve had a home in Eden. It was perfect.	4	3	カン		
200	proclaim	TUYÊN (Tuyên bố)	宣	proclaim, house, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one	9	9	"Under the primitive for house we meet the kanji for span. Think of the key word in its religious sense of missionary preaching: ""proclaiming the good news to all nations"" and ""shouting it from the housetops."" That should be enough to help you remember this simple kanji, used in fact both for traditional missionary work as well as for one of its contemporary replacements: advertising."		You can proclaim your opinions from the comfort of your HOUSE and have it SPAN the entire globe these days via The Internet.	I heard young Muslims have to memorise the Koran and proclaim it aloud as a kind of rite of passage. Imagine the SPAN of hours spent under a ROOF practising that! It must surely be worse than trying to get through Heisigs RTK - count yourself lucky.	6	1	セン	のたま.う、のたま.わく	
201	wee hours	TIÊU (đêm)	宵	wee hours, house, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	10	9	"As the key word hints, the kanji in this frame refers to the late evening or early morning hours, well after one should be in bed asleep. It does this by picturing a house with a candle in it. The reason is obvious: whoever is living there is ""burning the candle at both ends,"" and working night after night into the wee hours."		I burn the CANDLE in my HOUSE until the WEE HOURS reviewing the kanji!!!	"I agree with elktapestry. This kanji really means ""early evening"", not ""wee hours"" [Heisig really should have done his homework on this and several other characters (e.g., #145 ""but of course"" -- what the hell???). Oh well.] ""Every house lights candles in the EARLY EVENING which stay lit until the wee hours"". E.G. 宵の口（よいのくち）early evening; 今宵（こよい）this evening; tonight."	JH	1	ショウ	よい	宵 (よい)
202	relax	AN, YÊN (Bình an)	安	relax, house, woman	6	9	To be told that the place of the woman is in the house may not sit well with modern thought, but like all cultural habits the Chinese characters bear the birthmarks of their age. So indulge yourself in a Norman Rockwell image of relaxing after a hard day's work: the scruffy and weary woman of the house slouched asleep in the living room chair, her hair in curlers and a duster lying in her lap.		It´s funny, Hesig gives no Kanji in his book that means cheap/inexpensive... well... if you were wondering what Kanji would carry that meaning, look no further. Sometimes I wonder if Hesig just thinks our little brains would be too easily confused by multiple meanings. Regardless, think of that woman relaxing. Cheapest place to do that is in one´s own home rather than at some fancy resort, eh? 家で休暇を取るは安いですね。.	You can only relax, when you have woman under roof to do all chores.	3	4	アン	やす.い、やす.まる、やす、やす.らか	安い (やす.い)
203	banquet	YẾN (Yến tiệc)	宴	banquet, relax, house, sun, day, tongue wagging, woman	10	9	"To carry on from the last frame, we note the entire day of work that comes between a woman and her house in preparing for a dinner banquet, pictorially ""interrupting"" her relaxation."		The WOMAN spent all DAY preparing a banquet in the HOUSE.	Under the roof, all day long, the woman prepared for the banquet (this wording helps me remember the order of this kanji´s elements).	JH	1	エン	うたげ	
204	draw near	KÍ ()	寄	draw near, house, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth	11	9	Let the idea of drawing near suggest something dangerous or eerie that one approaches with fear and trembling. Here we see a strange house - perhaps the haunted House of Usher that Edgar Allen Poe immortalized, or the enchanted Gingerbread House that lured Hansel and Gretel to draw near.		"The strange house has a sign saying ""DRAW NEAR"" in its window, instead of a ´Beware´ sign. It must be a trick!"	Imagine a horror movie set in a haunted mansion. The house is very strange. The characters draw near to one another for protection against the unknown.	5	3	キ	よ.る、-よ.り、よ.せる	寄せる (よ.せる), 寄る (よ.る)
205	wealth	PHÚ (giàu)	富	wealth, house, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains	12	9	Here we have the original character on which the primitive element for wealth is based. In keeping with the story introduced back then, note how all the wealth is kept under the roof of the same house.		Remember Ducktales? That rich duck had that room in his house where he kept all the wealth! He had so much in that house you could even swim in it!	In ancient Japan, a RICE FIELD is a unit of wealth as it can produce enough to feed all the MOUTHs in ONE HOUSE.	5	3	フ、フウ	と.む、とみ	富強 (ふきょう), 富裕 (ふゆう), 貧富 (ひんぷ), 富む (と.む), 富 (とみ)
206	savings	TRỮ	貯	savings, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, house, street, nail, spike	12	9	To avoid confusing this frame with the last one, try to think of savings as actual money. The only difference is that our currency is not paper bills but shells, a not uncommon unit of exchange in older civilizations. The nail under the roof of the house points to a hiding place in the rafters on which one strings up one's shells for safekeeping.		It takes a lot more than one clam of savings to buy a house on a street.	My SAVINGS plan - I nail my moneybags up in the rafters below my roof. I´m very secretive about it, and I wear a disguise with a big mustache (another meaning of this kanji) while I stash my loot.	4	2	チョ	た.める、たくわ.える	
207	tree	Mộc	木	tree, wood	4	10	Here we see a pictograph of a tree, showing the main trunk in the long vertical stroke and the boughs in the long horizontal stroke. The final two strokes sweep down in both directions to indicate the roots. Although it may look similar at first sight to the kanji for water (Frame 137), the order in which it is written is completely different and this affects its final appearance.	* As a primitive, this kanji can be used to mean tree or wood. In those cases where the last two strokes are detached from the trunk, we shall change its meaning to pole, or wooden pole.	If you need a story for a tree, then you need to be hit by one.	Pictograph of a tree.	1	5	ボク、モク	き、こ-	木石 (ぼくせき), 大木 (たいぼく), 土木 (どぼく), 木 (き)
208	grove	Lâm	林	grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2	8	10	Learn this frame in connection with the next one. A grove is a small cluster of trees. Hence the simple reduplication of the kanji for tree gives us the grove.		A grove has at least two TREEs.	Two tree huggers saying that protecting the environment is grovey man...　RTK2:　リン　森林　しんりん(woods and forests).	1	2	リン	はやし	林 (はやし)
209	forest	sâm. sâm lâm = rừng rậm	森	forest, tree, wood, tree3, wood3	12	10	"A forest is a large expanse of trees, or ""trees, trees everywhere,"" to adopt the expression we used back in frames 22 and 23."		The higher you go up a mountain the less trees there are, that´s so u dont mess up with their possition like i do.	Another tree planted within a grove turns it into a FOREST.	1	2	シン	もり	森 (もり)
210	Japanese Judas-tree	quế	桂	Japanese Judas tree, tree, wood, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	10	10	Unless you are a botanist, you are not likely to know what a Japanese Judas-tree looks like, and probably never even heard of it before, but the name is sufficiently odd to make remembering it easy. Using the primitives as our guide, we define it as a tree with ivy growing down its branches in the shape of a hangman's rope.		"Simple mnemonic : ""The Japanese Judas-tree is the tree on which Judas hang himself to the ivy"" (Judas the traitor of the Christian bible). Just picture Judas hanging himself, using ivy as a if it was a rope."	A tree covered in poison ivy will quickly betray you, thus the name JAPANESE JUDAS-TREE.	Names	1	ケイ	かつら	
211	oak	Bách, Bá. (Cây bách)	柏	oak, tree, wood, white, dove	9	10	"This kanji calls to mind the famous myth of the ""golden bough."" As you may recall, what made the sacred oak in the forest of Diana the Huntress outside of Rome ""golden"" were the white berries of the mistletoe that grew in the branches of the tree. When the light of the sun shone through them, they turned yellow and the branch to which they clung appeared to be made of gold. (If you don't know the story, take a break today and hunt it down in a dictionary of myth and fable. Even if you forget the kanji - which of course you won't - the story of the mistletoe and the fate it brought to Balder the Beautiful is most memorable.)"		The wood from oak trees can be used to make barrels in which white wine is aged. What´s more, I love white wine with an oaky flavour...	An oak tree is white, from left to right!	Names		ハク、ヒャク、ビャク	かしわ	
212	frame	KHUNG	枠	frame, tree, wood, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle	8	10	You might think of the frame this character refers to as the sort of frame we have created by drawing a dark line around this kanji and its explanation. Then think of that line as made of very thin wood; and finally note how each time the line bends it forms a 90° angle, thus giving us the nine and the ten.		wood at 90 (9 * 10) degrees.	Nine out of ten picture frames are made out of wood. The rest are made of metal or plastic.	JH	1		わく	枠 (わく)
213	treetops	SAO,TIÊU (Ngọn cây)	梢	treetops, tree, wood, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	11	10	As the days grow shorter and shorter, or so the northern European myth goes, the fear grows that the sun will take its leave of us altogether, abandoning the world to total darkness. Fixing candles to the branches of evergreen trees, it was believed, would lure the sun back (like things attracting like things), whence the custom of the lighted tree that eventually found its way into our Christmas customs. The story is a lot longer and more complex than that, but it should help to fix the image of climbing high up into the treetops to fix candles on the tree.		At Christmas time, on the treetops, people used to place great big candles (Now we usually place a star instead).	If you cut off the treetops, they still resemble the trees they used to be part of. Treetops=tree resemblance.	Names	1	ショウ	こずえ、くすのき	
214	shelf	BẰNG (Gác, nhà rạp.)	棚	shelf, tree, wood, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh, 2, part of the body2	12	10	"One often thinks of books as ""good companions,"" but here it is the shelf we store them on that is the companion. The reasons should be obvious: it is made of the same stuff, wood, and spends a lot more time with them than we do! Here again, be careful not to let the rationality of the explanation get in the way before you turn it into a proper story."		A shelf is a wooden companion to books.	I think of an Otaku, with a wooden shelf full of anime action figure statures, who are sadly his only companions.	JH	1	ホウ	たな、-だな	棚 (たな)
215	apricot	Hạnh (Cây hạnh)	杏	apricot, tree, wood, mouth	7	10	Since apricots can be eaten just as they fall from the trees, picture this mouth agape at the bottom of a tree (just as the elements have it), waiting for apricots to fall into it.		From the tree straight into the mouth is the best way to eat an APRICOT!	Imagine Totoro sleeping under his tree. As he snores a giant apricot falls nicely into his open mouth and he emits a giant burp of satisfaction. I can hear that music alreay....to - to to - to - ro...	Names	1	キョウ、アン、コウ	あんず	
216	paulownia	Đồng (cây đồng)	桐	paulownia, tree, wood, same, monks, hood, one, mouth	10	10	"Since you probably don't know what a paulownia tree is, we shall let the key word suggest the phrase ""the Little Brothers of St. Paulownia."" It is a short step to associate the tree with the monks to its right. (For the curious, the name of this oriental tree really comes from a Russian princess, Anna Pavlovna.)"		"In Japan, a paulownia (きり）is known as the ""princess tree"". It was once a traditional TREE planted at the SAME time as the birth of a daughter. It would grow fast enough that, at the time of her wedding, it could be used to make a dresser as a wedding present for her."	Paulownia is a Japanese tree which looks same as any other tree.	Names	1	トウ、ドウ	きり	
217	plant	Thực (Các loài có rễ. Như thực vật)	植	plant, tree, wood, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook	12	10	You have no doubt seen how people practicing the Japanese art of bonsai take those helpless little saplings and twist them into crippled dwarves before they have a chance to grow up as they should. The more proper way to plant a young tree and give it a fair shake in life is to set it into the earth in such a way that it can grow up straight.		Plants don´t become trees straightaway.	When you plant plants, you use a piece of WOOD to make the plant grow STRAIGHT.	3	2	ショク	う.える、う.わる	植える (う.える), 植わる (う.わる)
219	wither	Khô (Khô héo)	枯	wither, tree, wood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	9	10	What makes a tree begin to wither up, and perhaps even die, is a kind of arteriosclerosis that keeps its sap from flowing freely. Usually this is due to simple old age, as this character shows us. Be sure to picture a wrinkled old tree, withering away in a retirement center so that the commonsense explanation does not take over.		A tree withers away as it gets old.	When flowers get old they suffer (frame 225), but old trees just WITHER away painlessly. (Picture flowers crying in pain, but a dried up tree silent and sad).	JH	2	コ	か.れる、か.らす	枯らす (か.らす), 枯れる (か.れる)
220	crude	Phác (chất phác)	朴	crude, tree, wood, magic wand, augury	6	10	As all magicians who have passed their apprenticeship know, one makes one's wand out of a hazel branch and is careful not to alter the natural form of the wood. For the magic of the wand derives its power from its association with the hidden laws of nature, and needs therefore to be kept in its crude, natural state.		Wooden wands are the crudest. They are nothng compared to their carbon fibre equivilents.	A beginner magician starts with a crude wooden magic wand. Later he´ll upgrade to magicite, of course.	JH	1	ボク	ほう、ほお、えのき	
221	town	Thôn	村	town, tree, wood, measure, glue	7	10	The character for village was associated with rice fields (Frame 96). That for town, a step up on the evolutionary path to cities, shows a circle of trees glued together to measure off the confines of a town.		If you´ve ever played an old 8 bit or 16 bit RPG, like Dragon Warrior or Final Fantasy or Inindou, you´ll remember that every town was all bordered off by a line of trees with no space in between to get out through. Imagine that the trees were glued together so you could only exit town through the main or side gates, (so you couldn´t escape the important scripted scenes.).	Pfft. At it´s core, a town is just a bunch of wood glued together. Edit - Stop starring this piece of crap story! xD.	1	2	ソン	むら	村 (むら)
222	inter-	Tương (Tương đương)	相	inter-, tree, wood, eye	9	10	The prefix inter- stirs up associations of cooperation among people. From there we read off the elements: tree . . . eye. With only a slight leap of the imagination, those two words call to mind the scriptural proverb about first taking the block of timber out of one's own eye before helping your neighbors with the splinter in theirs. What more useful rule for inter-human relationships, and what more useful tool for remembering this kanji!		The prime minister is having inter-course behind that tree! All you can see are his eyes poking out from the righthand-side of the tree.	"ソウ/ショウ/あ INTER /MUTUAL /ASPECT /PHASE /MINISTER. ""Long ago, before there were telephones, people living far from one another would climb trees to eye each other´s aspects and inter-act for their mutual benefit. Those who did this best became government ministers, with the top person (perhaps the one with the longest neck (首, neck (#70)) becoming the prime minister 「首相 (しゅしょう)""."	3	3	ソウ、ショウ	あい-	相当 (そうとう), 相談 (そうだん), 真相 (しんそう), 相 (あい)
223	desk	Kỷ	机	desk, tree, wood, wind	6	10	We need to fix imagination here on two things to learn the kanji for desk: the wonderful rough wood of which it has been hewn and the wind that blows across it, sending your papers flying all over the room. These two elements, written in that order, dictate how to write the character.		My wooden desk is so messy, it looks like a strong wind blew my things all over it.	Whenever I´m alone at my computer desk, I´m always getting wood and breaking wind.	6	2	キ	つくえ	机 (つくえ)
224	book	Bổn, bản	本	book, tree, wood, one	5	10	"Recalling that books are made of paper, and paper made of trees, one might think of a book as a slice of a tree. Can you seethe ""cross-cut"" in the trunk of the tree? Picture it as a chainsaw cutting you out a few books with which to start your own private library."		The origin of a book is paper made out of TREEs. ONE tree can make many books.	An axe cutting a tree to make books.	1	5	ホン	もと	本 (もと)
225	tag	Trát (Cái thẻ, ngày xưa không có giấy, văn tự gì cũng viết vào ván gỗ nhỏ)	札	tag, tree, wood, fishhook	5	10	The tags you see hanging on trees in public places in Japan are helpful to identify what sort of trees they are. Next time you see one, imagine the bit of wire that fixes the tag to the branch as a large fishhook. REALLY imagine it, illogical as it is, and you will never have trouble with this kanji again.		Botanists like to identify TREEs by HOOKing tags on them.	"Might be good to note that this is also the Kanji for ""Paper Money"" w/ the reading さつ (千円札＝1000 Yen paper bill)... It also takes on the meaning of Playing Card with the reading of ふだ as in 花札 (Hanafuda cards) or トランプの札 (""trump"" playing cards). For the tag meaning I like to think of wooden tags hung on hooks from trees... but for these other meanings I like to think of both paper money and playing cards as paper (tree) products with the ability to ""hook you in"" so to speak."	4	2	サツ	ふだ	札 (ふだ)
226	calendar	LỊCH	暦	calendar, cliff, grove, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2	14	10	Look at this character in reverse order, from bottom up. First we see the primitive for days, an appropriate enough way to begin a calendar. Next we see a grove of trees growing under a cliff. The laws of nature being what they are, the trees would be stunted under such conditions, unless they were strong enough to keep growing upwards until they passed through the layers of rock and soil, right up to the surface. Now imagine that in those little boxes marking off the days on your wall calendar, you see that very process taking place step by step: 365 or so time-lapse pictures of that grove of trees each month, from January under the cliff to December on top of the cliff. The story is not as complex as it sounds, particularly if you happen to have a calendar nearby and can flip through it with this image in mind.		Years-Months-Days: It takes many years for a cliff to form or erode. A tree takes many months to grow. But days pass by regularly - so in this way, we see the movement of time such as with a CALENDAR.	This is just a picture of a wall calendar with a page for each month. The bottom half has the grid of days, the top half has a pretty picture of a forest this month. The cliff radical here is the top and left edges of the paper. You can see the paper curling up at the lower left where a breeze is trying to turn the page.	JH	1	レキ	こよみ、りゃく	暦 (こよみ)
227	plan	Án	案	plan, relax, house, woman, tree, wood	10	10	"Without much effort, the elements relax . . . tree suggest a hammock strung between two trees in your backyard, and you stretched out in it, hands folded behind your head, planning something or other. After all, it's something we all do from time to time: kick up our legs on the nearest piece of furniture and daydream about the best plan of action to take. Be sure to relate the relaxation to the tree, so that you don't end up with something else in its place (like ""legs"" or ""desk"" or ""table"")."		I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE.	If you bring a woman to your house, generally its not a good plan to stick your wood up her bottom, she may scream in pain あん!	4	1	アン	つくえ	
228	parch	Táo (Khô, ráo, hanh hao.)	燥	parch, fire, furniture, wooden goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3	17	10	"Parchment, made from animal skins, was the most common form of writing material used until the beginning of the nineteenth century. When paper took over, a method was devised to make artificial parchment from wood pulp. The fire at the left and in the ""strong"" position serves to remind us of the root word, ""parch,"" since nothing dries, puckers, wrinkles, and scorches quite like fire. And here is how we put it all together. Take a sheet of paper (a ""wood-good,""), wet it, and hold it over a hearth in your mind's eye. Now watch as it parches the paper, leaving it with a strange and bumpy surface resembling parchment."		"Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (FRAME 215) , maneuver (#671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: It´s been so parched recently that your furniture suddenly catches fire."	The parchment says you need fire to make goods from trees.	JH	2	ソウ	はしゃ.ぐ	
229	not yet	Vị (chưa)	未	not yet, tree, wood, one	5	10	As the key word suggests, this kanji has to do with something not quite over and done with. More concretely, it shows us a tree that is not yet fully grown. The extra short stroke in the upper branches shows new branches spreading out, leaving one with the feeling that the tree has a ways to go yet before it reaches maturity. In other words, the kanji conveys its meaning pictographically, playing on the earlier pictograph of the tree.		I believe a better version of that by mameha1977: [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) does not yet (未) have exremities (末) of vermilion (朱).	[Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (末) vermilion (朱).	4	3	ミ、ビ	いま.だ、ま.だ、ひつじ	
230	extremity	Mạt (ngọn, mộc mạt = ngọn cây)	末	extremity, tree, wood, one	5	10	This character is best learned in connection with that of the previous frame. The first stroke shows a branch that is longer than the main branch, indicating that the tree has reached the extremity of its growth, so that its branches stop spreading and start drooping downwards. Be sure to keep this imagery in mind, to avoid confusing this key word with synonyms that will appear later.		The tree has reached the extremity of its growth and no longer produces small, new branches at the top. Instead the existing top branch just grows longer and longer.	There are no great stories for this one yet, and I always forget it.. So, let´s try something ridiculous: The man lived by himself in the wilderness, with no females within miles. So, his only way of relief was to stick his extremity into a small hole in a tree.. The poor guy. Which horizontal stroke is the extremity? The longer one or the shorter one? That, my friends, is up to your own imaginations. I´d prefer not to dwell on that point, myself. ;).	4	3	マツ、バツ	すえ	末代 (まつだい), 本末 (ほんまつ), 粉末 (ふんまつ), 末 (すえ)
232	splash	Mạt (Bọt nổi lên trên mặt nước.)	沫	splash, water, water droplets, water pistol, extremity, one, tree, wood	8	10	The splash this kanji refers to is the dash of water against the rocks, with all the foam and spray that this creates. If you think of a splash in this sense as a wave that has run its full course and reached its extremity, namely the seashore, and if you think of it pictorially in your mind's eye, this somewhat rare (but oh so-easy-to-learn) kanji is yours for good.		The extremity of a wave of water is the splash.	A splash is WATER that has reached its EXTREMITY.	Names		マツ、バツ	あわ、しぶき、つばき	
233	flavor	Vị	味	flavor, mouth, not yet, one, tree, wood	8	10	When a tree has not yet finished growing, it produces fruit with a full flavor. When the official taster (the professional mouth to the left) determines that full flavor has been reached, the tree is pruned back so that it remains permanently not yet grown. A neat little agricultural trick and an easy to way see the sense of flavor hidden in this character.		My mouth has not yet swallowed the food because the flavor is so delicious that I keep chewing it.	To enjoy a food´s FLAVOR, it must be in one´s MOUTH but NOT YET swallowed.	3	4	ミ	あじ、あじ.わう	味 (あじ), 味わう (あじ.わう)
234	younger sister	Muội	妹	younger sister, woman, not yet, one, tree, wood	8	10	The younger sister in the family is the woman in the family who, like the newest branch in a tree, is not yet old enough or mature enough to do everything the elder sister can do (See frame 442).		My younger sister is NOT YET a fully grown WOMAN.	Is your younger sister a woman? Not yet! Damn!	2	4	マイ	いもうと	妹 (いもうと)
235	vermilion	Chu (đỏ)	朱	vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood	6	10	That red-orange color we call vermilion is found in nature during the fall when the leaves lose their sugar and begin to change color. This kanji depicts the very last leaf on a tree in the fall (the drop hung in the first stroke), the leaf that has not yet fallen as it one day must. Look at its color - vermilion. (Well, not really. The truth is, vermilion is made from a mercuric sulfide, but I'm sure you will agree that autumn leaves area lot easier to work with.)		It´s autumn: only one vermilion leaf on the tree has not yet fallen.	[Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (未)[correction wrong character before] vermilion (朱).	JH	1	シュ	あけ	
236	stocks	Chu, châu (cổ phiếu)	株	stocks, tree, wood, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood	10	10	"The stocks bought and sold on the market by the tens of millions each day get their name from a comparison to a healthy tree, in which one takes ""stock"" in the hopes that it will grow and produce more and more trees like itself. Usually good stocks are referred to as ""blue chip,"" but here we are asked to associate the key word with the color vermilion, perhaps because one can assess the value of a tree from the color of its autumn leaves."		Which tree would you buy stocks in - the healthy one on the left, or the one with only one vermilion leaf left on the right?	"Ideally, one buys stocks when a company is young, ""green,"" and rapidly growing -- then sells them just before the last vermillion leaf falls off, and a period of dormancy or limited growth begins."	6	1	シュ	かぶ	株 (かぶ)
237	young	Nhược , nhã (Bằng, dùng làm ngữ từ, nói sự chưa quyết định)	若	young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth	8	10	Here we see a flower held in the right hand. You can imagine yourself in a magic garden where flowers picked with the right hand grant eternal youth; and those picked with the left, premature senility. Go ahead, pick one with each hand and watch what happens.		The young little girl held a cute flower in her right hand.	In Hawaii, if you wear a flower over your left ear, it means you are taken. A flower over the right means you are not. The younger you are, the more likely you are to have a flower over your right ear…　　　　　　RTK2: 　ニャク　老若　ろうにゃく (young and old)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 ジャク　若干　じゃっかん(few).	6	3	ジャク、ニャク、ニャ	わか.い、わか-、も.しくわ、も.し、も.しくは	若年 (じゃくねん), 若干 (じゃっかん), 自若 (じじゃく), 若しくは (も.しくは), 若い (わか.い)
238	grass	Thảo	草	grass, flowers, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle	9	10	Perhaps you know the custom of seeding grass randomly or in some particular pattern with the flower called the crocus, which blooms for a few days each year in early spring. As the grass begins to turn green again after winter has passed, these tiny flowers dot up here and there. Now just look out your window at a patch of grass somewhere and think what a nice idea it would be to have your name spelled out in flowers once as a sort of early harbinger of spring.		Grass grows in earlier than flowers.	This grass is very long. The only flowers you can see are sunflowers – the rest are hidden by the grass.	1	3	ソウ	くさ、くさ-、-ぐさ	草 (くさ)
239	suffering	Khổ	苦	suffering, flowers, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	8	10	The picture of suffering we are given here is that of a flower that has grown old. When a flower ages, it pales and dries up, and probably even suffers. If you think that plants are incapable of such feelings, then ask yourself why so many people believe that talking to their flowers helps them bloom better.		Flowers for the old man suffering in the hospital.	The derivates from opium poppies such as morphine can be used to tame the suffering of the old.	3	3	ク	くる.しい、-ぐる.しい、くる.しむ、くる.しめる、にが.い、にが.る	苦しい (くる.しい), 苦しむ (くる.しむ), 苦しめる (くる.しめる), 苦い (にが.い), 苦る (にが.る)
241	tolerant	KHOAN (khoan dung)	寛	tolerant, house, flowers, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs	13	10	"The house of flowers or ""hothouse"" has become a metaphor for a narrow-minded, biased, and intolerant attitude distrustful of change. Tolerance, in contrast, is open-minded and welcomes novelty. The way to encourage tolerance in those who lack it is first to have them see through their own hothouse attitudes, which is the very counsel we are given in this kanji."		A tolerant person will ignore SEEing GRASS (marijuana) in the HOUSE of a friend.	"To be tolerant is to see flowers (meaning ""beautiful things"") in every house, instead of looking for drawbacks."	JH	1	カン	くつろ.ぐ、ひろ.い、ゆる.やか	
242	dilute	Bạc (bạc mệnh, bạc vị = nhạt)	薄	dilute, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue	16	10	"Take a good look at this kanji: the ""strong"" element here is really the flower, not the water as you might have thought on first glance. To the right is the acupuncturist from frame 48. Taking the key word to connote diluting the vital humors of the body, we can imagine our acupuncturist performing his task with flowers in place of needles, and using their hollow stems to pipe water into the body of the patient."		A Dr. missing his needle can only use dilute flower water for medicine.	Note This character belongs to a set of characters which share the flower/water primitive such as:: dilute (#227), fall (#299), clan (#1912), and seaweed (#2035).... (落 薄 藩 藻) It may be helpful to create a primitive keyword for this occurrence (like seaweed or watering can) which can save a lot of time distinguishing them from characters like Sino 満 and Full 満, where the water primitive is larger than the flower primitive.	JH	2	ハク	うす.い、うす-、-うす、うす.める、うす.まる、うす.らぐ、うす.ら-、うす.れる、すすき	薄い (うす.い), 薄まる (うす.まる), 薄める (うす.める), 薄らく (うす.らく), 薄れる (うす.れる)
243	leaf	Diệp (lá)	葉	leaf, flowers, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood	12	10	"Three elements are given here: flower . . . generation . . . tree. The first and last seem logical enough, since it is the leaf that feeds the flowers on a tree. The element for generation interposed between the two suggests that the movement of a tree from one generation to the next is like its ""turning over a new leaf."""		On top of the leaves a flower appears, promising new generations for the old tree below.	The flower generation spent far too much time up trees trying to smoke leaves.	3	3	ヨウ	は	葉 (は)
244	imitation	Mô (Khuôn mẫu)	模	imitation, tree, wood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard	14	10	Ah, but haven't modern graveyards become a parody of their ancestors! The flowers are plastic, the writing on the stones is unimaginative and cold, and the whole thing looks more like a marble orchard than a right and proper graveyard. This kanji continues with the modernization trend by picturing imitation trees in the graveyard. But of course, how convenient! They don't need pruning or fertilizing, their leaves don't fall, and they remain the same color all year long.		If I find out this furniture you´re selling me is made of imitation wood, I´ll put you in the graveyard.	The Japanese are so enamored of everything plastic, they even put IMITATION plastic trees in their graveyards! (No, not really, but I wouldn´t be surprised).	6	1	モ、ボ		模範 (もはん), 模型 (もけい), 模倣 (もほう)
245	vague	Mạc (mờ mịt)	漠	vague, water, water droplets, water pistol, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard	13	10	Think of the key word as having to do with something viewed through a haze, or in the twilight and from a distance, so that only its outlines are vaguely discernible. Now we are back again to the essence of the true graveyard. The water may be taken as the sound of waves dashing up against the rocks or the dripping of moisture on cold rock - anything that helps you associate vagueness with the graveyard and keep it distinct from the imitation we met in the last frame.		The precise locations of sailors who meet a WATERY GRAVE are vague.	The water in the graveyard has worn away the headstones, so the writing is vague.	JH	1	バク		
246	grave	Mộ	墓	grave, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, soil, dirt, ground	13	10	"The mounds of soil with crude wooden crosses set at their head suggests those boot-hill graves we all know from cowboy lore. The only odd thing about this kanji is that the soil comes UNDER the graveyard, rather than to its left, where we might expect. Just think of the bodies as ""lying under boot-hill"" if you have any trouble. By the way, this is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that we learn a kanji whose key word is the same, or almost the same, as a primitive element based on it, but whose shape differs somewhat. There is no cause to worry. By using the primitive in a variety of other characters, as we have done here, the confusion will be averted as a matter of course. In most cases, as here, the primitive element is taken from a part of the fuller kanji."		The soil under a graveyard is full of graves.	A grave is a patch of soil in a graveyard.	5	1	ボ	はか	墓 (はか)
247	livelihood	MỘ (chiều tối, già, cuối)	暮	livelihood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, sun2, day2	14	10	Imagine that you have chosen the occupation of the keeper of a graveyard and spend your days tending to other's dead hood in order to make your means of livelihood.		He made a livelihood out of robbing GRAVEYARDS in broad DAYlight.	The gravedigger makes his LIVELIHOOD digging in the graveyard all day For graveyard, imagine an idyllic picture: beautiful grass with the sun shining down...and a dog peeing on one of the graves. Don´t confuse with occupation (#1034). Hold onto the irony of making your LIVElyhood from tending dead people.	6	3	ボ	く.れる、く.らす	暮らす (く.らす), 暮れる (く.れる)
248	membrane	Mô (màng)	膜	membrane, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard	14	10	"The part of the body first affected by a stroll through a haunted graveyard is the skin, which gets goose bumps. But we save the word ""skin"" for another kanji, and use the odd word ""membrane"" here. Think of being so scared through and through that the goose flesh moves from the outside in, giving you goose membranes."		In the moonlight of the graveyard I hear a zombie say, MMMMM..EMM...BRANEsssss.	The membranes in your flesh rot when placed in the graveyard.	JH	1	マク		
249	seedling	Miêu (mầm)	苗	seedling, flowers, rice field, brains	8	10	"To avoid confusion with the image of rice seedlings to appear later, we shall take these seedlings out of their agricultural setting in the rice fields and into the frame of Brave New World surgery, where ""ideas"" or ""values"" are being implanted into brains like seedlings to insure a harmonious society. Then you need only imagine them taking root and breaking out into flower right through the tops of the skulls of people walking around on the streets."		If you plant seedlings in a FIELD eventually they will FLOWER.	Crap! There are flowers in the rice field... Who let those seedlings get in there?!	JH	1	ビョウ、ミョウ	なえ、なわ-	苗 (なえ)
250	portent	TRIỆU (dấu hiệu; điềm báo) /ˈpɔːtent $ ˈpɔːr-/	兆	portent, turtle, portent	6	11	Here we have a pictograph of the back of a turtle, the two sloping vertical strokes representing the central ridge and the four short strokes the pattern. Think of reading turtle shells as a way to foretell the future, and in particular things that portend coming evils.	* When this character is used as a primitive in its full form, we keep the key-word sense of a portent. When it appears to the left in its abbreviated form (namely, the left half only), we shall give it the pictographic sense of a turtle.	When your wife´s LEGs get huge hairs on them it is surely a bad portent for things to come.	A bad portent makes the hairs on your legs stand.	4	2	チョウ	きざ.す、きざ.し	兆し (きざ.し), 兆す (きざ.す)
251	peach tree	ĐÀO	桃	peach tree, tree, wood, portent, turtle	10	11	To associate the peach tree with the primitive for a portent, recall the famous Japanese legend of Momotarō, the Peach Boy. It begins once upon a time with a fisherman and his wife who wanted badly to have a child, but none was born to them. Then one day the old man caught a giant peach, out of which jumped a healthy young lad whom they named Peach Boy. Though the boy was destined to perform heroic deeds, his birth also portended great misfortune (how else could he become a hero?). Thus the tree that is associated with a portent of coming evil comes to be the peach tree.		The pits of a peach tree look like turtles.	King Koopa consistently captures Princess Peach. Eventually he´s going to run out of castles and just set her in a tree.	JH	1	トウ	もも	桃 (もも)
252	stare	THIẾU (nhìn; ngắm)	眺	stare, eye, portent, turtle	11	11	"To give someone the ""evil eye"" is to stare at them, wishing them evil. The roots of the superstition are old and almost universal throughout the cultures of the world. In this kanji, too, being stared at is depicted as an eye that portends evil."		Sauron´s One fiery eye stare at Frodo and it is a sign of portent. Evil will become whomever the eye is staring upon.	You lost a staring contest with a turtle because you blinked your eye before he did. (The contest wasn´t fair, because turtles have nictitating membranes, and don´t need to blink so often.) Eye comes first, because stare is most associated with eyes. And compare with challenge (#658) where this same obstreperous turtle challenges you to a finger wrestling contest. (Sibyl´s story with some notes that helped me).	JH	1	チョウ	なが.める	眺める (なが.める)
253	dog	KHUYỂN	犬	dog, large, St. Bernard, drop	4	11	We know that the character for large takes on the meaning of the St. Bernard dog when used as a primitive. In this frame we finally see why. The drop added as a fourth and final stroke means that we have to do with a normal-sized dog, which compared to the St. Bernard is no more than a drop in the kennel.	* As a primitive this character can take two meanings. In the form given here it will mean a very small dog (which we shall refer to as a chihuahua for convenience sake). When it takes the form 犭 to the left of a character, we shall give it the meaning of a pack of wild dogs.	A large dog, dripping drool.	If we remember large (#107) as a man with his arms outstretched, the drop represents man´s best friend - a dog.	1	4	ケン	いぬ、いぬ-	犬 (いぬ)
254	status quo	TRẠNG (the state of a situation as it is)	状	status quo, turtle, chihuahua, dog, large, drop	7	11	Did you ever hear of the turtle who fell madly in love with a chihuahua but could not have her because their two families did not like the idea of their children intermarrying? Like all classic stories of ill-fated love, this one shows how the young upset the status quo with an emotion older and more powerful than anything their elders have devised to counter it: blind love.		It was left to the turtle to make right with the dog and thus maintain the status quo..	A turtle mounting a chihuahua clearly disrupts the status quo.	5	3	ジョウ		
255	silence	MẶC (MẶC SÁT sự không để ý tới; sự lờ đi; sự mặc kệ)	黙	silence, black, computer, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue	15	11	"Oddly enough, the character for silence shows us a black chihuahua. Actually, the cute little critter's name is Darkness, as I am sure you remember from the famous song about silence that begins, ""Hello, Darkness, my old friend...."" Note how the four dots reach all the way across the bottom of the character."		The computer won´t stop beeping, which is making the chihauhua bark, and it´s driving this guy insane. The only solution he can come up with is to throw them both on the fire and finally enjoy the silence.	Your neighbor is so sick of you playing Led Zeppelin that he takes your copy of the song Black Dog and burns it. Finally, silence in the neighborhood.	JH	1	モク、ボク	だま.る、もだ.す	黙る (だま.る)
256	sort of thing	NHIÊN (quả nhiên, tất nhiên)	然	sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue	12	11	"The key word in this frame refers to a suffix that gives the word before it an adjectival quality; hence we refer to it as ""sort of thing."" Reverting to the time when dog was more widely eaten than it is today (See frame 127), we see here a large cauldron boiling over an oven flame with the flesh of a chihuahua being thrown into the whole concoction to make it into a ""hot-diggity, dog-diggity"" sort of thing."		"Flesh of a dog over a cooking fire = ""hotdog"". There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. Believe me, you don´t want to know what sort of things . Visualize the hotdog curling as it cooks, to remember the unusual way the flesh primitive curves in this kanji. (tweaked version of ziggr´s. Thanks!)."	There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. (I use hot dog for this primitive (meat of a dog over a cooking fire). I swear I can actually see the 月 here as a hot dog, with its slight curve and grill marks.).	4	3	ゼン、ネン	しか、しか.り、しか.し、さ	当然 (とうぜん), 自然 (しぜん), 必然 (ひつぜん)
257	reed	ĐỊCH ([countable, uncountable] a type of tall plant like grass that grows in wet places)	荻	reed, flowers, pack of wild dogs, fire	10	11	"You've no doubt seen cattails, those swamp reeds with a furry flower to them like the tail of a cat. This might just turn out to be a good way to get rid of a troublesome pack of wild dogs: lure them into a swamp of these reeds with the cattail flowers and then set fire to the swamp. Take care to focus on the flower rather than the ""cattail"" to avoid confusion with frame 259 below."		REEDS are the only FLOWERS that WILD DOGS like to FIRE up and smoke while they are playing poker.	A reed is a flower that looks like a hot dog.	Names		テキ	おぎ	
258	hunt	THÚ (săn bắn)	狩	hunt, pack of wild dogs, guard, house, glue	9	11	One of the worst problems you have to face when you go hunting is to guard your take from the wild dogs. If you imagine yourself failing at the task, you will probably have a stronger image than if you try to picture yourself succeeding.		Actually when hunting it may be a good idea to use a pack of dogs as your personal guard.	After a pack of wild dogs hunt some food, they will guard it fiercely.	JH	1	シュ	か.る、か.り、-が.り	狩り (か.り), 狩る (か.る)
259	cat	MIÊU	猫	cat, pack of wild dogs, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains	11	11	"Knowing how much dogs love to chase cats, picture a pack of wild dogs planting ""cat-seedlings,"" watering them, and fertilizing them until they can be harvested as a crop of cats for them to chase and torment. If you begin from the key word and think of a ""crop of cats,"" you will not confuse this story with the apparently similar story of two frames ago."		The cat hid in the FLOWERS of the FIELD from the WILD DOGs.	Dawgs always wanna put their seedlings in pussies.	JH	3	ビョウ	ねこ	猫 (ねこ)
260	cow	NGƯU (a large female animal that is kept on farms and used to produce milk or meat)	牛	cow	4	11	"Can you the ""doodle"" of a cow that has just been run over by a steamroller? The small dot in the first stroke shows its head turned to one side, and the next two strokes, the four legs."	* As a primitive, the same sense of cow is kept. Note only that when it is placed OVER another element, its tail is cut off. In this case, and when the element appears on the left, the stroke order is changed.	A cow tried to climb up a vermilion tree, but in doing so, it broke its two bottom branches off.	A cow bleeds vermilion when you cut off two of it´s legs.	2	4	ギュウ	うし	牛 (うし)
261	special	ĐẶC (ĐẶC BIỆT)	特	special, cow, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	10	11	Despite the strong phonetic similarity, there will be no problem keeping the key word special distinct from the character we met earlier for specialty (Frame 47), since the latter has immediate connotations lacking in this kanji. Anyway, we shall let the key word of this frame refer to something in a special class all its own - like the sacred cows of India that wander freely without fear of being butchered and ground into hamburger. Even though the practice is originally a Hindu one, and in any case no longer followed among the majority of Japanese Buddhist monks, the Buddha's refusal to take the life of any sentient being makes it only fitting that the cows should be placed on the sacred grounds of a Buddhist temple in this kanji.		Think of not special people, but special animals. The sacred Hindu cows are special - they can wander around the temple without fear of becoming roast beef.	"The Church Lady is traveling through Japan and notices with distaste a sacred cow relieving itself inside a Buddhist Temple. ""Well, isn´t that special""."	4	4	トク		
262	revelation	CÁO (báo cáo, thông cáo)	告	revelation, cow, mouth	7	11	Folklore throughout the world tells us of talking animals who show a wisdom superior to that of human beings, and that same tradition has found its way into television shows and cartoons right into our own century. This character depicts revelation through the mouth of a cow, suggesting oracular utterances about truths hidden to human intelligence.		"The revelation makes the cow´s mouth drop down, ""Hamburgers are made of what?!""."	When you get a revelation, you may drop to the ground with your mouth wide open.	4	3	コク	つ.げる	告げる (つ.げる)
263	before	TIÊN	先	before, cow, human legs	6	11	"Take this key word in its physical, not its temporal, sense (even though it refers to both). If you have a cow with human legs, as the elements show us here, it can only be because you have two people in a cow-suit. I always thought I'd prefer to be the one standing before, rather than the one that holds up the rear and becomes the ""butt"" of everyone's laughter."		I´ve never seen a cow with human legs before!	"Nasty story but it keeps the meaning true to the kanji. ""BEFORE you stick it in a COW and SPREAD the legs (the bottom stroke of this cow looks like two legs) make sure she has HUMAN LEGS""-------------sorry, I´ll remove if I get enough reports, but will keep if I get more stars."	1	5	セン	さき、ま.ず	先 (さき)
264	wash	TẨY	洗	wash, water, water droplets, water pistol, before, cow, human legs	9	11	"This character is so logical that one is tempted to let the elements speak for themselves: water . . . before. But we have already decided we will not allow such rationalism to creep into our stories. Not even this once. Instead, let us change the character from the Peanuts comic strip called ""Pigpen,"" who is always preceded by a little cloud of dust and grime, and rename him ""Wash-Out."" Everywhere he walks, a spray of water goes before him to sanitize everything he touches."		In Japan, you always wash with water from the shower before you enter the bathtub.	You wash things with WATER to get them back to the clean state they were in BEFORE.	6	3	セン	あら.う	洗う (あら.う)
265	jammed in	GIỚI (Cõi, ở vào khoảng giữa hai cái)	介	jammed in, umbrella, stick, walking cane	4	12	The idea of something getting jammed into something else is depicted here by having a walking stick get jammed into an umbrella frame by someone shoving it into an already occupied slot in the umbrella stand at the door. First notice the vertical strokes: on the left is the curved umbrella handle, and on the right the straight walking stick. Now try to imagine the two parties tugging at their respective properties like two kids on a wishbone, creating a scene at the entrance of an elegant restaurant.		"The two strokes at the bottom look like a J and I, which stands for ""jammed in.""."	Two people jammed in under an umbrella. A woman with a dress and a man (straight). It´s always me that ends up getting wet.... but the tail of the skirt is this time!	JH	2	カイ		
266	world	GIỚI	界	world, rice field, brains, jammed in, umbrella, stick, cane	9	12	As the world gets jammed with more and more people, there is less and less space. Imagine yourself taking an air flight over a world so densely populated that every bit of it is sectioned off like a gigantic checkerboard (the rice fields). If you look closely at the character, you should be able to see a kind of movement taking place as still more is being jammed into that already narrow space.		One Japanese farmer I know is so small minded that he thinks the entire world is JAMMED IN the borders of his little RICE FIELD.	A famous philosopher once said that his world consisted of all the things he could jam into his brain.	3	4	カイ		
267	tea	TRÀ	茶	tea, flowers, umbrella, wooden pole	9	12	As everyone knows, tea is made from tea leaves. But the tea plant itself has its own flowers, which can be quite beautiful and add a special flavor to the tea, as the Chinese found out already over 4,598 years ago. With the image of a terrace of flowering tea bushes in mind, picture a number of brightly painted and very l-o-n-g wooden poles (Frame 207) placed here and there in their midst, with a tiny umbrella at the top to shade the delicate-tasting tea flowers.		Some people think drinking tea is boring and quaint. That´s why I spice mine up by adding a cocktail umbrella, which of course is made from a wood-en toothpick supporting a paper umbrella with flowers printed on top.	"When I drink herbal tea I like to drink it under a parasol. If it´s too hot I go ""ho, ho, ho !!"" (katakana ホ)."	2	4	チャ、サ		茶色 (ちゃいろ), 茶番劇 (ちゃばんげき), 番茶 (ばんちゃ)
269	fit	HỢP	合	fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	6	12	The kanji for fit reads literally, top to bottom, as a meeting of mouths - which is a rather descriptive way of speaking of a romantic kiss. We all know what happens when there is no meeting of minds and when people's ideas don't fit with one another. But this kanji invites us to imagine what would happened to the romance of a certain unfortunate couple whose mouths didn't fit.		I wouldn´t mind a meeting of mouths with her, she´s really fit !	He had such a big mouth that he could easily fit one whole umbrella in it.	2	3	ゴウ、ガッ、カッ	あ.う、-あ.う、あ.い、あい-、-あ.い、-あい、あ.わす、あ.わせる、-あ.わせる	合同 (ごうどう), 合計 (ごうけい), 結合 (けつごう), 合併 (がっぺい), 合宿 (がっしゅく), 合点 (がてん), 合う (あ.う), 合わす (あ.わす), 合わせる (あ.わせる)
270	pagoda	THÁP (vật kiến trúc cao và có đỉnh nhọn, xây cất trong chùa để tàng trữ xá lợi, kinh sách)	塔	pagoda, soil, dirt, ground, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	12	12	On the left we see a mound of dirt, and to the right flowers made to fit together. The two sides combine to create a great pagoda made of dirt, with flowers by the tens of thousands fitted together for the roofing of each of the layers. Be sure to put yourself in the scene and fit a few of the flowers in place yourself so that the image works its way into memory with full force.		In order to build a pagoda in this small Japanese garden everything has to fit: the soil to the left and the flowers in the upper right corner.	Pictograph-o-rama. This is a corner of a Japanese garden, with a small mound of soil on the left, and a little concrete pagoda in the front with flowers behind it. (To my eye, the fit looks a lot like a little pagoda anyway. This may or may not cause confusion for you, though...).	JH	2	トウ		
271	king	VƯƠNG	王	king, jewel, ball	4	12	See what you can do to come up with a pictograph of a king's scepter here that suits your own idea of what it should look like. You might even begin with the basic element for I beam and then try to fit the remaining third stroke in.	* As a primitive, this can mean either king or scepter, but it will usually be taken to mean ball, as an abbreviation of the character in the next frame.	To be king you have to be a real crafty one !	The king unites heaven and earth. (imagine heaven being the top line over the soil).	1	3	オウ、ノウ		
272	jewel	NGỌC	玉	jewel, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop	5	12	Note the drop here in the king's scepter, which is exactly what you would expect it to be: a precious jewel handed down from of old as a symbol of his wealth and power.	* As a primitive, we can use this to mean either jewel or ball. When it appears anywhere other than on the left side of a kanji, it takes the same shape as here. On the left, it will be lacking the final stroke, making it the same as the character in the previous frame.	The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...	"The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...and he hangs left! (I always screw up the direction of the ""drop"")."	1	2	ギョク	たま、たま-、-だま	玉 (たま)
273	treasure	BẢO	宝	treasure, house, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop	8	12	Every house has its treasure, as every thief knows only too well. While the things we treasure most are usually of sentimental value, we take the original sense of the term treasure here and make it refer to jewels kept in one's house.		On treasure island is a single house - where all the jewels are stored.	"Put a ""roof"" (lid) on your jewels and voila! You´ve got a treasure chest."	6	2	ホウ	たから	宝 (たから)
274	pearl	CHÂU	珠	pearl, king, jewel, ball, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood	10	12	Take care to keep the meaning of this kanji distinct from that for jewel. Think of the most enormous pearl you have ever seen, a great vermilion-colored ball sitting on your ring and making it extremely difficult to move without falling over from the weight of the thing.		Usually pearls are white, or black. Only a very rare, very expensive pearl is vermillion colored. Such a pearl would be fit for a king.	King Vermillion is a little queer and likes to wear pearl necklaces.	JH	1	シュ	たま	
275	present	HIỆN	現	present, king, jewel, ball, see, telescope, eye, human legs	11	12	"Do not think of a ""gift"" here, but of the present moment, as distinct from the future and the past. The kanji gives us a ball in which we see the present - obviously a crystal ball that enables us to see things going on at the present in faraway places."		The KING ... can SEE clearly the PRESENT state of affairs in the land. (maybe he hees them in the crystal ball on the left?).	Hey, I want my money back! This crystal ball is out of order, I can see the present instead of the future!	5	3	ゲン	あらわ.れる、あらわ.す、うつつ、うつ.つ	現す (あらわ.す), 現れる (あらわ.れる)
277	lunatic	CUỒNG	狂	lunatic, pack of wild dogs, king, jewel, ball	7	12	"A lunatic is literally one driven mad by the light of the moon, and the most famous of the ""looneys"" are the legendary lycanthropes or ""wolfmen."" Sometimes the transformation is only a temporary phenomenon, sometimes it is permanent. In the latter case, the poor chap takes off on all fours to live with the beasts. To remember this kanji, imagine one of these lycanthropes going looney and setting himself up as king of a pack of wild dogs that roams about and terrorizes innocent suburban communities."		Oh no ! A pack of dogs has bitten the king. He has turned into a rabid lunatic !	Think of King Nebuchadnezzar, who for 7 years lost his sanity and had to live like a wild animal.	JH	1	キョウ	くる.う、くる.おしい、くるお.しい	狂う (くる.う), 狂おしい (くる.おしい)
279	emperor	HOÀNG	皇	emperor, white, dove, king, jewel, ball	9	12	An emperor, as we all know, is a ruler - something like a king but higher in status. The white bird perched above the king, elevating him to imperial heights, is the messenger he sends back and forth to the gods to request advice and special favors, something that white birds have long done in folklore throughout the world.		Ancient Rome had Emperors instead of Kings, and they wore white robes. Thus an emperor is a king in white. (make sure you picture a roman emperor not a japanese one and you´ll be ok).	The white dove descended on the king and he was promoted to emperor.	6	1	コウ、オウ		皇帝 (こうてい), 皇室 (こうしつ), 皇后 (こうごう)
280	display	TRÌNH	呈	display, mouth, king, jewel, ball	7	12	"The trick to remembering this character lies in associating the key word with the line from the nursery rhyme about 4 and 20 blackbirds baked in a pie: ""Wasn't this a dainty dish to set before the king?"" If we think of display in terms of that famous line, and the king with his head thrown back and his mouth wide open as 4 and 20 blackbirds fly in one after the other, we shall have satisfied both the elements and their position."		The mouth of the king is displaying his bling.	What a pathetic display! The king is sprawled on his throne, head back and mouth wide open, fast asleep. We should never have let him drink so much at that banquet last night.	JH	1	テイ		
281	whole	TOÀN	全	whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball	6	12	"Wholeness suggests physical and spiritual health, ""having your act together."" The kanji-image for wholeness depicts being ""king under your own umbrella,"" that is, giving order to your own life. I know it sounds terribly abstract, but what could be more abstract than the word whole?"		"The fat king hogs the whole space under his umbrella. (tweaked version of radical tyro´s story. ""fat"" makes a more vivid image for me.)."	The king takes up the whole space under his umbrella.	3	3	ゼン	まった.く、すべ.て	全く (まった.く)
282	plug	XUYÊN,THEN	栓	plug, tree, wood, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball	10	12	Here we think of plug in the sense of a cork or stopper used to seal the mouth of a bottle, water faucet, or something with liquid running out of it. Forgetting the abstract picture of the former frame, let us work with all the primitive units: tree . . . umbrella . . . ball. Imagine a tree with a faucet in the side out of which tennis balls are flowing, bouncing all over the ground by the hundreds. You fight your way up to it and shove your giant beach umbrella into the tree to plug it up.		"The fat king under his umbrella offers useless advice to the workers. ""You´ll need the whole tree to plug that gap"". Imagine a grossly fat, incompetent king under a parasol giving annoying advice to sweating workers who know what they´re doing. (I always have trouble bringing up the ""whole"" primitive. This story reminds me how to build that part. )."	To plug the hole, you need to use a whole piece of wood - like a cork or something.	JH	1	セン		
283	logic	LÝ	理	logic, king, jewel, ball, computer	11	12	We first referred to this character back in frame 185, to which you might want to return to have a peek. The image of logic we are given is something like a central jewel in a computer, like the jewels in old clocks that keep them running smoothly. Try to picture yourself making your way through all the rams and roms and approaching this shining jewel, a chorus of voice sand a blast of trumpets in the background heralding the great seat of all-knowing logic.		The king of LOGIC is the computer.	Computers are ruled by logic (it is the king of computers).	2	4	リ	ことわり	
284	lord	CHỦ,TRÚ	主	lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	5	12	"A man's home is his castle, goes the proverb from an age where it was the male who was lord of the household. Fundamentally, it means only that every one of us is a bit (or drop) of a king in our own environment. As for the positioning of the elements, if you take care to ""read off"" the primitives in this way, you won't end up putting the drop down below, where it turns the kanji into a jewel."	* As a primitive element, we set the key word aside entirely and take it as a pictograph of a solid brass candlestick (with the drop representing the flame at the top).	A lord is a little drop down from King in hierarchy.	Although this kanji´s meaning hasn´t caused me much trouble, I´ve had problems remembering the direction of the drop above king, since drops at tops of kanji often seem to appear in different directions. To remember this one, I think of the placement of the drop in jewel (#256). Both of them use the king primitive and include a short drop stroke going from the top left to bottom right.	3	4	シュ、ス、シュウ	ぬし、おも、あるじ	主人 (しゅじん), 主権 (しゅけん), 施主 (せしゅ), 主 (おも), 主 (ぬし)
285	pour	CHÚ (Rót, nước chảy rót vào một chỗ)	注	pour, water, water droplets, water pistol, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	8	12	Picture pouring water from a lighted candlestick. What could be more ridiculous, or simpler, as a way to recall this kanji?		Visualize an idiot trying to figure out how to extinguish a candle. He sees a glass of WATER and decides to pour it onto the CANDLESTICK to put it out. Water spills everywhere.	Like water the hot wax poured down the side of the candlestick.	3	4	チュウ	そそ.ぐ、さ.す、つ.ぐ	注ぐ (そそ.ぐ)
286	pillar	TRỤ	柱	pillar, tree, wood, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	9	12	The pillar referred to here is the wooden beam that stands at the entrance to a traditional Japanese house. Carve it in imagination into the shape of a gigantic candlestick and your work is done.		The main pillar in a house should be made of the biggest and strongest tree - the lord of the trees.	"Why has this pillar been carved in the shape of a giant penis?! ""You said that ´it should be made of wood´, My Lord.""."	3	2	チュウ	はしら	柱 (はしら)
287	gold	KIM (Vàng là một loài quý nhất trong loài kim, nên gọi vàng là kim)	金	gold, metal, gold, umbrella, drop, king, jewel, ball, drop2	8	12	If this were not one of the most common characters you will ever have to write, I would apologize for having to give the explanation that follows. Anyway, we want to depict bars of gold bullion with an umbrella overhead to shade them from the heat (and perhaps to hide them as well). The bullion is made by melting down all the scepters of the kingdom, drop by drop, and shaping them into bars.	* As a primitive, it means not only gold but any metal at all.	The fat king taking up the whole space under the umbrella actually isn´t fat - he just has two big gold bars hidden under his clothes.	"Under the umbrella´s shade, the king sang, "" Drop it to the left, drop it to the right, give me all the GOLD in sight!""."	1	5	キン、コン、ゴン	かね、かな-、-がね	金属 (きんぞく), 金銭 (きんせん), 純金 (じゅんきん), 金 (かね)
288	pig iron	TIỂN (gang, a form of iron that is not pure)	銑	pig-iron, metal, gold, before, cow, human legs	14	12	"Pig iron refers to iron in the crude form in which it emerges from the smelting furnaces. Of all the various forms metal can take, this one shows us metal before it has been refined. Imagine two photographs labeled ""before"" and ""after"" to show the process."		Pig iron is basic/crude metal, that is, before it has been processed.	Pig-iron is crude metal (金) before (先) it is refined. If you have trouble with this character, envision a big minotaur (cow head with human legs) as a blacksmith, smelting metals and making swords for war.	Names	1	セン		
289	bowl	BÁT	鉢	bowl, metal, gold, origin, book, tree, wood, one	13	12	Let bowl suggest a large and heavy golden bowl into which you are throwing all the books you own to mash them into pulp, for some outrageous reason you will have to think up yourself.		This is the BOWL of an alchemist: see how he mixes metals in his bowl, as he follows the instructions from his book?	If I was begging with a BOWL, I would want GOLD and BOOKS.	JH	1	ハチ、ハツ		鉢 (はち), 植木鉢 (うえきばち)
290	copper	ĐỒNG	銅	copper, metal, gold, same, monks, hood, one, mouth	14	12	"Picture an order of monks serving as chaplains for the police force. Their special habit, made of protective metal, is distinguished by a row of copper buttons just like the ""cops"" they serve."		I can´t believe no one has used this one yet: Copper is metal which looks almost the same as gold. Really, look it up on Wikipedia, it´s yellow and it´s shiny (atleast in some compounds)!	Copper is an excellent conductor. In other words, it´s a metal for which the voltage is the same everywhere. That´s why it´s used for wires.	5	2	ドウ	あかがね	
291	angling (the sport of catching fish with a fishing rod SYN fishing)	ĐIẾU (Câu cá)	釣	angling, metal, gold, ladle, bound up, drop	11	12	The character we learned for fishing (Frame 184) refers to the professional, net-casting industry, while the angling of this character refers to the sport. The odd thing is that your angling rod is a golden ladle which you are using to scoop goldfish out of a river.		All the people that go to the Japanese festivals to catch fish part time are suckers. Me? I´m a pro. I bring a big-ass golden ladle. I´m a true ANGLING professional.	Imagine an effeminate Roman 2000 years ago angling with a golden ladle instead of a rod because it matches his eyes and hair better and it impresses the boys. (Why a Roman? Because ´angling´ is just the roman-derived way to say ´fishing´ - use this to distinguish fishing from angling.).	JH	1	チョウ	つ.る、つ.り、つ.り-	釣る (つ.る)
292	needle	CHÂM	針	needle, metal, gold, ten, needle	10	12	In frame 10 we referred ahead to this full character from which the primitive for needle (on the right) derives. Since we already expect that needles are made of metal, let us picture a set of solid gold darning needles to complete the kanji.		Remember the story of the needle in the haystack. Why would someone even look for a needle if it wasn´t a GOLD NEEDLE?	A golden needle is worth ten times more than an ordinary needle.	6	2	シン	はり	針 (はり)
293	inscription (Khắc chữ vào đồ, hoặc để tự răn mình, hoặc ghi chép công đức gọi là minh)	MINH (a piece of writing inscribed on a stone, in the front of a book etc)	銘	inscription, metal, gold, name, evening, mouth	14	12	Take inscription in the sense of the name you ask the jeweler to carve on a gold bracelet or inside a gold ring to identify its owner or communicate some sentimental message. It will help if you can recall the first time you had this done and the feelings you had at the time.		A piece of metal with a name on it. Well, this is basically the definition of inscription.	I imagine ancient Egyptian inscriptions: Pharaohs´ names written in gold.	JH	1	メイ		
294	tranquillize	TRẤN (to make a person or animal calm or unconscious by using a drug)	鎮	tranquilize, metal, gold, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight	18	12	The first lie-detector machines of the twentieth century worked by wiring pieces of metal to the body to measure the amount of sweat produced when questions were asked. It was discovered that nervousness produced more sweat, indicating subconscious reactions when the truth was getting too close for comfort. Nowadays, people can take drugs that tranquillize them in such a way as to neutralize the effect of the device, which is why other means have had to be developed.		Tranquilize - using a metal syringe to get the truth.	Enough gold can tranquilize the truth in anyone.	JH	1	チン	しず.める、しず.まる、おさえ	鎮まる (しず.まる), 鎮める (しず.める)
295	road-way	Đạo (Đường cái thẳng)	道	road-way, neck, horns, drop, eye, road	12	13	"The key word carries both the sense of a road for transit and a way or method of doing something, but the former is better for forming an image. The primitives read: the neck of a road. Think of a crowded road-way where traffic has come to a standstill - what we commonly refer to as a ""bottleneck."""		When we go out on the ROAD-WAY, we often risk our own necks (that´s why I take the train! ).	Watch as a villianous fiend stretches a poor damsel´s neck over a dusty road. Her ear pressed to the ground, she can hear the rumble of a carriage thundering down the roadway. Will the hero save her in time? Or will her neck be ground into the road, spilling it´s precious contents into the dust?	2	4	ドウ、トウ	みち	道路 (どうろ), 道徳 (どうとく), 報道 (ほうどう), 道 (みち)
296	guidance	Đạo (Chỉ dẫn. Như khai đạo = mở lối, huấn đạo = dạy bảo, v.v.)	導	guidance, neck, horns, drop, eye, road, glue	15	13	"When we accept someone's guidance, we permit ourselves to be glued to a certain road or way of doing something, and try to ""stick"" to it."		For guidance on the road-way, glue a GPS unit to your car.	Good guidance will help you stay glued to the right path.	5	2	ドウ	みちび.く	導く (みちび.く)
297	crossing	TỬ (ngã tư)	辻	crossing, cross, ten, needle, road	5	13	"Take the first two strokes in the sense we gave them back in frame 10, as the pictograph of a cross, and set it on a road to create a ""crossing."""		Cross-road.	This kanji appears in the remarkable compound, 辻斬り 【つじぎり】 (n): killing a passerby in order to test a new sword. Imagine a cross by the road, at a busy crossing, marking the spot of the unfortunate passerby´s death.	Names			つじ	
298	swift	Tấn (Nhanh chóng. Đi lại vùn vụt, người không lường được gọi là tấn.)	迅	swift, fishhook, cross, ten, needle, road	6	13	"Here we see a crossing in the form of a barbed fishhook, suggesting a swifter alternate not only to the roundabouts used in Europe but also to the ""cloverleaf"" design used on superhighways in the United States."		The car went too swiftly through the crossing and was hooked by the cops.	In the Heisig version of Frogger, you can image ten giant fish hooks sweeping across the road, with our hapless hero ´froggy´ forced to make a swift crossing or end up as fish bait.	JH	1	ジン		
299	create	Tạo	造	create, revelation, cow, mouth, road	10	13	Think of creating as making something out of nothing. Then recall how the way of revelation laid out in the Bible begins with the story of how God created the world out of a dark and chaotic nothingness.		A cow creates a road by eating all the grass on its path.	CREATION is the ROAD to REVELATION (if you´re feeling artsy) :).	5	2	ゾウ	つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り	造る (つく.る)
300	urge	Bách (Thúc giục.)	迫	urge, white, dove, road	8	13	To urge someone to do something, you make the way as appealing as possible, perhaps even whitewashing it a bit.		When you have the URGE to go to White Castle, you know it´s time to hit the road.	When you start down the road of cocaine, you´re sure to feel some pretty bad URGEs soon.	JH	1	ハク	せま.る	迫る (せま.る)
301	escape	Đào (tẩu)	逃	escape, turtle, portent, road	9	13	When escaping from something or someone, one always feels as if one is not going fast enough, like a turtle on an expressway. (Since the turtle is on the road and not on the left, it can keep its full kanji shape as given in frame 250.)		I used my pants to make a rope, which I then used to escape from prison; hence the naked, hairy legs running along the road!	A turtle version of frogger dodging cars to escape to the other side of the road...　　　RTK2:　トウ　逃走　とうそう(escape)...　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　桃236　(ﾁｮｳ): 兆235　眺237　挑658　跳1284.	JH	3	トウ	に.げる、に.がす、のが.す、のが.れる	逃がす (に.がす), 逃げる (に.げる), 逃す (のが.す), 逃れる (のが.れる)
302	environs	BIÊN	辺	environs, dagger, sword, road	5	13	To keep the environs clean and safe, you could cement daggers in the road, blades pointed upwards, so that no polluting traffic could pass by. You could, if you were an ecologically-minded terrorist.		"Caution: this kanji doesn´t mean environment; it means ""environs; boundary; border; vicinity"". To separate the environs, create the border by placing daggers on the road."	To protect the environs around their village, samurai would travel the roads with their swords.	4	2	ヘン	あた.り、ほと.り、-べ	辺境 (へんきょう), 周辺 (しゅうへん), その辺 (そのへん), 辺り (あた.り), 辺 (べ)
303	patrol	(đi) tuần	巡	patrol, deluge, stream, flood, road	6	13	A virtual flood of motorcycle police washing down a road is this kanji's image for a patrol.		The cops don´t PATROL anymore - they just flood the road.	The Venice cops patrol on river roads.	JH	1	ジュン	めぐ.る、めぐ.り	巡る (めぐ.る)
304	car	xa (cái xe)	車	car, sun, ten, needle	7	13	You may keep the whole range of connotations for this keyword, car, provided it does not interfere with the pictograph. Look for the front and back wheels (the first and last horizontal strokes) and the seat in the carriage in the middle. As an exercise, try to isolate the primitives on your own and make a story out of them.	* Car, cart, wagon, and vehicle may all be used as primitive meanings.	My car is so fast it can go through ten rice fields in ten minutes.	"Rather than hobbling along with a walking stick to cross through a span, it´s much better to use a car. (Imagine an old man with a walking stick creeping along a span of road, and you, in a car, whizzing right by him. It´s funny ´cause it´s true.) Also, it´s important to include the word ""through,"" so you know the walking stick goes right THROUGH the span."	1	5	シャ	くるま	車 (くるま)
305	take along	Liên (tiếp, hợp)	連	take along, car, road	10	13	What you are meant to take along in this kanji are not things but people. The image of the car on the road should ground your image for picking up your friends to take them along to wherever you are going.		When you put your car on the road you should always take along a few friends. Don´t confuse with carry (#303).	"This kanji also means ""linked"" or ""series"" so I´ve changed the kanji meaning to ""GO ALONG (WITH EACH OTHER)."" Well, a ROAD and a CAR certainly GO ALONG with each other. And the CAR will help you to GO ALONG the ROAD. This Kanji is the ""Union"" in Soviet Union and the ""United"" of United Nations (the countries that ""go along with each other"" at least some of the time)."	4	3	レン	つら.なる、つら.ねる、つ.れる、-づ.れ	連れる (つ.れる), 連なる (つら.なる), 連ねる (つら.ねる)
306	rut	Quỹ (Con đường, các sao hành tinh đi xung quanh mặt trời gọi là quỹ đạo.)	軌	rut, car, nine, baseball	9	13	Combine the primary and secondary meanings of this keyword to form your story. Begin with the car whose tires get caught in a rut and spin without going anywhere. Then go onto the baseball team who can't win a game because it has fallen into a rut of losing.		My car got so stuck in a rut it required nine people pushing to get it out again.	I got my car stuck in a rut ! I´m gonna have to call 999 !	JH	1	キ		
307	transport	Thâu (Chuyển vần, lấy xe vận tải đồ đi.)	輸	transport, car, meeting of butchers, umbrella, one, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber	16	13	"On the left we see a vehicle used for transport. On the right, we see a new tangle of elements that need sorting out. The first three strokes, you will remember, are the primitive for meeting. Below it we see the elements for flesh and saber, which combine to create a compound element for a butcher and his trade. Together they give us the image of a ""trucker's convoy."""		The car is a cattle-car, used to transport animals for the butcher´s meeting - a convention on new butchering techniques. Hear the screams of the animals as it pulls up in front of the convention hall, where the butchers are waiting with their knives out front.	The vehicle transports animals for a meeting with the butcher.	5	2	ユ、シュ		
309	in front	Tiền (trước)	前	in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber	9	13	We waited to introduce this character until now, even though the pieces have been available for some time, because it helps to reinforce the odd kanji of the last frame. Picture the butcher hacking away with his knife at a slab of meat on his table with a pair of ram's horns placed in front of him (or on his head, if you prefer). There is no need to worry about confusing this kanji with that for before (Frame 263), since it will not appear as a primitive in any other character used in this book.		When I get horny my flesh sword sticks out in front of me.	If you stand in front of a bull´s horns, you are asking for your flesh to be cut (or butchered if you prefer).	2	5	ゼン	まえ、-まえ	前 (まえ)
311	each	Đều (Đều. Mỗi người có một địa vị riêng, không xâm lấn được.)	各	each, walking legs, mouth	6	13	"""Suum cuique"" goes the popular Latin proverb. A certain disease of the English language makes it almost impossible to translate the phrase without gender bias. In any event, here we see someone walking with his/her mouth between his/her walking legs, giving us an image of ""To each his/her own."""	"* The sense of the proverb should help when using this kanji as a primitive; otherwise, reduce it to its original elements. But do not associate it in any way with the word ""every,"" which we shall meet later in another context."	Son, I´ve never told you this but each woman has a second mouth between their fiiiiiine walking legs.	Each and every one of us walks and talks differently.	4	2	カク	おのおの	各 (おのおの)
312	status	Cách (tư cách)	格	status, tree, wood, each, walking legs, mouth	10	13	If you can imagine trees as status symbols (as they might well be for those living in Japan's congested cities, where greenery has become something of a luxury item), then each might be aiming to have his/her own tree, just to keep up with the Suzukis.		"Ranger! I want you to go check the status of each tree. ""Errr, Each tree sir?"" replies the ranger looking out over the vast forest. ""That´s Right, I want the status of each tree! Move out!""."	A man measures his own status by the size of his woody...and compares it to each one he sees.	5	3	カク、コウ、キャク、ゴウ		格式 (かくしき), 規格 (きかく), 性格 (せいかく)
314	abbreviation	Lược	略	abbreviation, rice field, brains, each, walking legs, mouth	11	13	"Each field has its own abbreviations (chemistry, philosophy, sports, etc.). Needless to say, the ""stronger"" primitive - thatis to say, the simpler and more often used one - takes the dominant position on the left, even though the story would read them off the other way around."		There are so many abbreviations and acronyms nowadays that no brain can remember each of them. Mnemonic: ab-brain-each-ation.	A very anal farmer wants to catologue each grain of rice in his rice field. Imagine him scribbling a tiny abbreviation of his name and a number on each grain.	5	2	リャク	ほぼ、おか.す、おさ.める、はかりごと、はか.る、はぶ.く、りゃく.す、りゃく.する	
315	guest	Khách	客	guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth	9	13	When you are a guest in a courteous town, each household has its own way of welcoming you, and each house becomes your home.		Each person under my roof is treated as a guest.	In my house I welcome each guest.	3	3	キャク、カク		客間 (きゃくま), 客車 (きゃくしゃ), 乗客 (じょうきゃく)
316	forehead	Ngạch (Bộ trán, trên chỗ lông mày dưới mái tóc gọi là ngạch)	額	forehead, guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	13	As Miss Manners will be the first to tell you, out of respect, one does not look straight into the eyes of one's guests, but focus on the top button of their collar. Here, however, you are told to look above the eyes to the forehead of your guest.		Sign the guestbook page with your forehead. (Picture a guestbook full of forehead prints like thumbprints).	In New Zealand, people welcome guests by touching their foreheads together.	5	2	ガク	ひたい	額 (ひたい)
317	summer	Hạ	夏	summer, one, ceiling, drop, eye, walking legs	10	13	"In the summer, fatigued by the heat, your head hangs down nearly as far as your walking legs, or rather, your ""dragging legs."" Note how the walking legs (instead of ""animal legs"") are the only thing that distinguishes this character from that for page (Frame 64)."		In SUMMER you are hot from the top of your head down to your walking legs.	I personally think it was too confusing to try and use head as the primitive. (How am I supposed to remember that the animal legs are replaced with walking legs instead of human legs?) Rather, I think have the image of a hot summer and you want to keep oneself under a ceiling not out jogging around.	2	4	カ、ガ、ゲ	なつ	夏季 (かき), 初夏 (しょか), 盛夏 (せいか), 夏 (なつ)
318	dispose	Xử , xứ	処	dispose, walking legs, wind	5	13	Both the stretching out of the walking legs and the little bit of wind tucked in on the right suggest using one's legs to kick something out of the way, or dispose of it.		The best way to dispose of a nasty bit of wind is to let it go and use those walking legs to dissapear. Nobody will ever know it was you.	To dispose of rubbish you should walk it to the bin not throw it to the wind.	6	3	ショ	ところ、-こ、お.る	
319	twig	Điều (cành nhỏ)	条	twig, walking legs, tree, wood	7	13	"Geppetto made walking legs for his little Pinocchio from two twigs of a tree, giving him a set of ""twiggy"" shanks."		They all say they have a TREE between their WALKING LEGS but most only have a TWIG.	Don´t confuse with branch or bough - think of snapping twigs. A twig is always the kind of wood that snaps when the hunter´s walking legs just barely touch it, making a snapping sound that alerts the prey to the hunter´s presence.	5	1	ジョウ、チョウ、デキ	えだ、すじ	
320	fall	Lạc (rụng, lá rụng)	落	fall, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, each, walking legs, mouth	12	13	When water falls, it splats and splashes; when flower petals fall, they float gently in the breeze. To each thing its own way of falling.		Water each flower or the petals will wither and fall.	[It´s been suggested on the forum (http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?id=1079) that flower across the full width of the kanji and water on the left below it should have its own keyword; seaweed is a popular choice. See also dilute (#227), clan (#1912), seaweed (#2035). This story is for the benefit of those using that idea.] Picture a group of Japanese skydivers falling through the sky -- suddenly each one opens, instead of a parachute, an enormous sheet of nori seaweed to carry them safely down.	3	3	ラク	お.ちる、お.ち、お.とす	落ちる (お.ちる), 落とす (お.とす)
321	superfluous	Nhũng	冗	superfluous, crown, weathercock, wind	4	14	Picture a weather vane beneath a regal crown, spinning round and round. It is not only superfluous but makes a perfect ass out of the one who wears it.		"The king´s crown was blown off by the wind. ""Oh well,"" he said, ""it´s just a superfluous symbol.""."	"The court jester wears a crown and is full of wind with bad jokes. He is superfluous to the King´s court. This kanji is read as ""JOU"" and commonly used to create the compound for jou-dan 冗談 (jest or joke) hence court jester. Also jou-go 冗語 (redundancy) and jou-in 冗員 (useless workers) 員-employee (#56)."	JH	1	ジョウ		
323	army	Quân	軍	army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car	9	14	"The crowned vehicle depicted here is a ""chariot,"" symbol of an army."	* Used as a primitive this kanji means only chariot.	British army cars are at the service of the crown.	Imagine a crown is the hood ornament on every army car.	4	2	グン		
324	radiance	Huy (rực)	輝	radiance, ray, small, little, human legs, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car	15	14	Take advantage of the first syllable of the key word to think of the ray of light to the left. Now add the glittering chariot that is emitting those rays and you have radiance.		Rays of light emitted from Apollo´s chariot = radiance. Don´t put the sun into this kanji. The rays are coming from the chariot directly!	Radiance is an army of rays.	JH	1	キ	かがや.く	輝く (かがや.く)
325	carry	Vận	運	carry, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car, road	12	14	"A long string of ""sweet"" chariots ""swinging low"" to our roads is a sure sign that the Lord is ""comin' for to carry"" someone home."		Don’t confuse it with “take along” (287). In that one, there was a car so you could take along your friends once you found them on the road. In this one, there is an army chariot just to carry military supplies (sorry no room for you).	Roads carry armies (in contrast to seas carrying navies or skies carrying air forces).	3	4	ウン	はこ.ぶ	運ぶ (はこ.ぶ)
326	crown	Quan, quán (cái mũ)	冠	crown, beginning, two, human legs, glue	9	14	By having the crown pass from one age to the next, a people keeps itself glued to its beginnings.		"Remember the SUPERFLUOUS CROWN that flew away in the WIND? Well now the king is saying ""i should have had the thing GLUED to my head from the BEGINNING""."	A crown, from the beginning of the new king´s life, is glued to him. He must inherit it.	JH	1	カン	かんむり	冠 (かんむり)
327	dream	Mộng	夢	dream, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, crown, evening	13	14	"To have a dream after going to bed is really the crown to a perfect evening. The flower petals over the eyes (instead of the ""sand"" that Westerners are used to finding there when they awake in the morning) only confirms the image of a pleasant dream suggested by the rest of this rather complex kanji."		Last night´s date with Miss Sweden was like a dream. She even laid flowers over my eyes to crown the perfect evening.	In the movie American Beauty, Kevin Spacey liked to DREAM about his daughter´s friend and have a rose petal fall onto his eye from the ceiling. He did this lying in his bed each evening. You can almost see him lying in his bed in this kanji.	5	3	ム、ボウ	ゆめ、ゆめ.みる、くら.い	夢 (ゆめ)
328	pit	Khanh (hố)	坑	pit, soil, dirt, ground, whirlwind, top hat, wind	7	14	A whirlwind begins to dig its way into the soil like a drill until it makes a deep pit.		A whirlwind digs a hole in the ground throwing out lots of dirt until it ends up with a giant pit.	Tazmanian Devil whirlwinds a pit into the soil. Note: Take care difference between pit and rut.	JH	1	コウ		
329	tall	Cao	高	tall, top hat, mouth, alien, hood, mouth, mouth2	10	14	Recalling an image from frame 195, first see the mouth under the extraterrestrial's glass hood, and then the mouth under the top hat of one of his mates who has tried on the strange earthling's headgear only to find that it makes him look much, much taller than everyone else.	* As a primitive, this character keeps its sense of tall and its position at the top of other primitives, but its writing is abbreviated to the first 5 strokes.	Two little aliens in a trenchcoat and top hat, trying to look TALL. The bottom one, in the glass helmet, is under the coat. The top one has his top hat pulled down in disguise, so all you can see is his mouth.	Here we have TWO MOUTHS each wearing a different hat. The top one is wearing a TOP HAT which is know to be as a TALL hat. The bottom one is wearing a SPACE HELMET which is known as an EXPENSIVE hat. (this kanji means both).	2	5	コウ	たか.い、たか、-だか、たか.まる、たか.める	高 (たか), 高い (たか.い), 高まる (たか.まる), 高める (たか.める)
330	receive	Hưởng	享	receive, tall, top hat, mouth, children	8	14	Tall children receive more attention. Tall children grow up to make better wide receivers. Take your pick, depending on whether you prefer child psychology or American football. At any rate, be sure you have some particular tall child in mind, someone who really was outstanding and always attracting attention, because he or she will come in handy in the next two frames.		In basketball however, tall children receive all the attention.	Tall children receive all the attention. They also make great receivers in football... this kanji also means ´catch´ (therefore a football receiver is a great image).	JH	1	キョウ、コウ	う.ける	
331	cram school	Thục (Cái chái nhà. Gian nhà hai bên cửa cái gọi là thục. Là chỗ để cho con em vào học, cho nên gọi chỗ chái học là gia thục)	塾	cram school, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, soil, dirt, ground	14	14	Cram schools are after-hours educational institutions where kids can do concentrated preparing for their coming entrance examinations or drill what they missed during regular class hours. The exception are the tall children who are out on the school grounds practicing sports, and the fat ones who are out there burning off calories. So this character depicts those who do NOT go to the cram schools, rather than those who do.		Welcome to our cram school: you will receive a rounded education on our grounds.	"You can receive a well-rounded education if you study at our cram school says the advertisement. ""Just come to our school grounds and check it out yourself!""."	JH	1	ジュク		
332	mellow	Thục (Trong thuần thục)	熟	mellow, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue	15	14	The tall and fat children from the last frame are here cast into a cauldron over an oven flame until they have sufficiently mellowed that they can return to the normal life of a student.		Imagine tall children sitting round the fire toasting marsh-mellows.	The cram school (309) tortures its students - especially the tall and fat ones who need to grow up - over a fire until they mellow. (Note that here the keyword ´mellow´ only means to mature, ripen, or acquire skill; not the colloquial meaning of ´chill out´).	6	1	ジュク	う.れる	熟れる (う.れる)
333	pavilion	Đình	亭	pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike	9	14	Think of all the pavilions at County Fairs or World Expos you have wandered into or seen advertised in the media, and you will no doubt see rising up among them the towering tall crowned nail (the crown being a revolving restaurant) - that architectural monstrosity that has become a symbol of science and technology at such events.		The Pavillion on crown street is the tallest I have ever seen.	The tallest Pavilion crowns the street.	JH	1	テイ、チン		
334	capital	Kinh	京	capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little	8	14	When we think of a capital city today we think of tall skyscrapers dwarfing the endless swarms of little folk scurrying here and there about their business.		Tokyo, capital of Japan: tall buildings, small people (compared to the buildings).	The capital is where the powerful act formal wearing top hats, open their mouths, and get little done.	2	4	キョウ、ケイ、キン	みやこ	
335	refreshing	Lương (Lạnh, mát. Như lương thủy)	涼	refreshing, water droplets, water pistol capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little	11	14	Since few things are as refreshing on a warm day as a cool shower (the water), here we picture an entire capital city treating itself to one, and in full view of everyone.		When you´re a tourist in the capital during the heat of summer, finding a water fountain is oh, so refreshing.	The water from the capital of Japan, Tokyo, is so refreshing!	JH	2	リョウ	すず.しい、すず.む、すず.やか、うす.い、ひや.す、まことに	涼しい (すず.しい), 涼む (すず.む)
336	scenery	Cảnh	景	scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little	12	14	Scenery is depicted as a sun rising over a capital city, which is a bit of natural scenery the city dwellers themselves rarely get to see!		Imaging the sun rising over the capital--classic postcard scenery.	Anyone who´s been to Kyoto doesn´t need to think too deeply into this Kanji! Imagine a sunny day in the old capital, and there´s no better scenery.	4	3	ケイ		
337	whale	Kình	鯨	whale, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little	19	14	The whale swallows a whole school of fish, who turn their new abode into a proper little fish-capital.		If fish were cities, the whale would surely be the capital.	When the whale was first discovered it was the biggest fish people had ever seen. Stories exaggerated its size - people said it was as big as the entire capital city!	JH	1	ゲイ	くじら	鯨 (くじら)
338	cottage	XÁ	舎	cottage, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth	8	14	A lidded crock with an umbrella overhead gives us a mixture of the modern and the nostalgic in this design for a cottage.		The cottage is so small - it has an umbrella for the roof; soil for the floor and room for only one mouth.	My vacation cottage is nothing but a hole in the ground covered by an umbrella.	5	1	シャ、セキ	やど.る	
339	circumference	Chu (Vòng, khắp một vòng tròn)	周	circumference, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth	8	14	Look more closely at your lidded crock and you will see little ruler marks along its bottom edge. This is so you can use it to calculate the circumference of your motorcycle helmet: just begin at a fixed point and turn the lidded crock around and around, keeping it flush against the side of the helmet, until you come back to your starting point. If you kept track of how many turns and part-turns your lidded crock made, you now know the circumference.	* As a primitive, this character can take the added significance of a lap.	If my LIDDED CROCK has the same CIRCUMFERENCE as my head, I like to use it as a HELMET.	You´re at a motorcycle store looking to buy a helmet. The only way to check the circumference of your head is to put increasingly larger lidded crocks on your head until one slips on just right. Now you know what size helmet to buy.	4	2	シュウ	まわ.り	周り (まわ.り)
340	week	Chu (Một tuần lễ gọi là nhất chu.)	週	week, circumference, running track, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, road	11	14	Picture a circular road with 7 markers on it, one for each day of the week. When you have walked one complete lap on this road, you shall have completed one week.		Imagine a road built so well that it takes only a week to travel the circumference of the earth.	Actually the week is like a never ending road where we travel in a circle through the same seven days again and again, the circumference is always the same. circumference (#317) also means circuit or lap, so that also makes think about the rotations of the moon, sun and the earth -- all important for measuring all kinds of time periods.	2	4	シュウ		
341	gentleman	Sĩ	士	gentleman, gentleman, samurai	3	14	The shape of this kanji, slightly differing from that for soil by virtue of its shorter final stroke, hints at a broad-shouldered, slender-waisted warrior standing at attention. When feudalism collapsed, these warriors became Japan's gentlemen.	* The primitive meaning reverts to the more colorful image of the samurai, Japan's warrior class.	What a handsome gentleman. Standing up so straight, and broad shoulders too!! He´s like a modern samurai!	A gentleman has broad shoulders and doesn´t soil himself.	4	1	シ		
342	good luck	Cát (Tốt lành. Phàm việc gì vui mừng đều gọi là cát, đối lại với chữ hung 凶. Như cát tường = điềm lành.)	吉	good luck, samurai, mouth	6	14	Here we see a samurai standing on a street with an open mouth, which people walk up to and look down deep inside of for good luck.	* As a primitive, we shall take this shape to mean an aerosol can, from the mouth and the very tightly-fitting lid (note how it differs here from the lidded crock).	The samurai´s wife gives him a (uhum) before battle for good luck.	"A true samurai gentleman will always mouth, ""Good luck"" to his opponents before a match."	JH	1	キチ、キツ	よし	吉日 (きちじつ), 吉例 (きちれい), 大吉 (だいきち)
343	robust	Tráng	壮	robust, turtle, samurai	6	14	Robust is seen as a turtle turned samurai.		Half of a turtle shell as a shield makes a samurai more robust.	The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are robust gentlemen aren´t they?	JH	1	ソウ	さかん	
344	villa	TRANG (biệt thự, trang trại, nghiêm trang)	荘	villa, flowers, robust, turtle, samurai	9	14	The villa pictured here is filled with exotic flowers at every turn, and has a pair of turtle-samurai standing before its gates.		A villa is fancier (decorated with flowers) and more robust than the average.	The teenage mutant samurai turtles live in a villa with flowers on the roof so that the neighbours don´t get suspicious.	JH	1	ソウ、ショウ、チャン	ほうき、おごそ.か	
345	sell	MẠI	売	sell, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs	7	14	A samurai, out of a job, is going door-to-door selling little windup crowns with human legs that run around on the floor looking like headless monarchs.		The samurai happened to find an extra large crown that he wore as a belt on his waist, just above his legs. I wonder if he will sell it to me?	"A ""samurai"" will never sell his ""crown"" (king), even it meant having both his ""human legs"" chopped off!"	2	4	バイ	う.る、う.れる	売る (う.る), 売れる (う.れる)
346	study	Học	学	study, schoolhouse, owl, crown, child	8	15	The child in the little red schoolhouse is there for one reason only: to study. Anyone who has gone through the schooling system knows well enough that study is one thing and learning quite another again. In the kanji, too, the character for learning (Frame 616) has nothing to do with the schoolhouse.		In the school house there are kids always studying. (BTW, atomiton, this is NOT 字).	Children in schoolhouses are there to study, nothing else!!!	1	5	ガク	まな.ぶ	学ぶ (まな.ぶ)
347	memorize	GIÁC (cảm giác, giác ngộ)	覚	memorize, schoolhouse, owl, crown, see, telescope, eye, human legs	12	15	The idea of memorizing things is easily related to the schoolhouse; and since we have been at it for more than a hundred pages in this book, the idea that memorizing involves seeing things that are not really there should make it easy to put the two elements together.		In a schoolhouse in class: 1) you see something on the blackboard, then 2) you memorize it.	You´ll never memorize all the kanji by seeing them in a school house. You need Heisig and RtK!	4	3	カク	おぼ.える、さ.ます、さ.める、さと.る	覚える (おぼ.える), 覚ます (さ.ます), 覚める (さ.める)
348	flourish	VINH	栄	flourish, schoolhouse, owl, crown, tree, wood	9	15	The botanical connotations of the word flourish (to bud and burst into bloom, much as a tree does) are part of the ideal of the schoolhouse as well.		The TREES FLOURISH in the CLASSROOM, a little too much perhaps, there´s no room for the students any more.	Students are like young trees. They tend to flourish in the schoolhouse.	4	2	エイ、ヨウ	さか.える、は.え、-ば.え、は.える、え	栄える (さか.える), 栄え (は.え), 栄える (は.える)
349	write	Thư	書	write, brush, tongue wagging, sun, day	10	15	The sage talks rapidly with his tongue wagging in his mouth, while the brush of the scribe runs apace to write down the master 'swords.		Make sure you practice writing kanji with a brush every day before the sun goes down.	The calligrapher had a peculiar habit: when using her brush to write, she would stick out her tongue, just slightly.	2	5	ショ	か.く、-が.き、-がき	書く (か.く)
350	haven	Tân (bến)	津	haven, water, water droplets, water pistol, brush	9	15	Seeing the tiny boats of poor mortals tossed about in a stormy sea like so many corks, the All-Merciful took its brush and drew little inlets of water where the hapless creatures might seek shelter. And so it is that we have havens.		A brush laying in dirty water is a haven for bacteria.	The haven for a BRUSH is in WATER.. Otherwise they get dry and withered and cant be used?!	JH	1	シン	つ	津 (つ)
351	breed	Mục (Kẻ chăn giống muông.)	牧	breed, cow, taskmaster	8	15	When it is time to breed new cattle, the bull is usually willing but the cow is often not. Thus the taskmaster to the right forces the cow into a compromising position, so to speak, so that she and her mate can breed.		"Imagine a taskmaster giving a cow the command to ""start breeding, and start doing it now!"", except that the cow takes his advice a bit too literally and starts chasing the taskmaster to carry out this command! instead of finding another cow to breed with. Hence, you see the taskmaster running to the right, trying to stay ahead of the cow."	Hint: This is the kanji from which taskmaster is derived. Actually, this kanji has nothing to do with breed, and a lot to do with pastures and shepherds (also for cowboys, japanese and spanish don´t differenciate between animals). Think of a cowboy (taskmaster) who brings his cows to the pasture.	4	1	ボク	まき	牧 (まき)
352	aggression	Công	攻	aggression, craft, taskmaster	7	15	The special craft of successful taskmasters is their ability to remain constantly on the aggressive, never allowing their underlings a moment to ponder a counter-aggression of their own.		Aggression is the craft of a good dominatrix.	AGGRESSION is a well-honed craft for any decent taskmaster.	JH	1	コウ	せ.める	攻める (せ.める)
353	failure	Bại	敗	failure, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, taskmaster	11	15	The taskmaster is acknowledging the failure of a clam to make the grade in some marine school or other.		If you end up in failure, you give money to the taskmaster to train you.	The shell who was defeated before (defeat (#63)) is being chastised by the taskmaster for his failure to win.	4	3	ハイ	やぶ.れる	敗れる (やぶ.れる)
354	a sheet of	Mai (tờ)	枚	sheet of…, tree, wood, taskmaster	8	15	English counts thin, flat objects, like bed linen and paper, in sheets. The kanji does this with a taskmaster whipping a tree into producing sheets against its will.		The taskmaster is a strict bathroom monitor who hands out only one sheet of really rough, splintery toilet paper per person. You can see the wood fibers.	This taskmaster is the bathroom nazi: he counts how many sheets of toilet paper and tissue you use, and then tells you what % of a tree you just killed.	6	2	マイ、バイ		
355	happenstance	Cố	故	happenstance, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster	9	15	Call it fate or providence or plain old Lady Luck, happenstance is the oldest taskmaster we know. It nearly always has its way.		An OLD TASKMASTER is no happenstance (coincidence). The older you get the more rigid in your ways.	Need to disambiguate from enemy (#443) as it´s easy to mix up antique and old here. Let´s think of an accidental president -- he is an old taskmaster who has managed to win the election by happenstance .	5	1	コ	ゆえ、ふる.い、もと	故 (ゆえ)
356	awe	Kính	敬	awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster	12	15	"Standing in awe of someone, you get self-conscious and may try to speak in flowery phrases out of veneration or fear. The taskmaster at the right is drilling you in the practice of your ""honorifics."""		The flowery phrases of the schoolmaster held the students in awe.	敬 【けい】 (n) reverence; respect. 敬語 【けいご】 (n) honorific; term of respect; (P) STORY: The TASKMASTER demands RESPECT. If you don´t talk to him in HONORIFICS and FLOWERY PHRASES you will be sorry.	6	2	ケイ、キョウ	うやま.う	敬う (うやま.う)
357	say	Ngôn	言	say, words, keitai, mouth	7	15	Of all the things we can do with our mouths, speech is the one that requires the greatest distinctness and clarity. Hence the kanji for say has four little sound-waves, indicating the complexity of the achievement.	* This kanji, which appears often as a primitive, can mean saying, speech, or words, depending on which is most useful.	A pictogram of someone saying a four letter word from their mouth after the censors have gotten a hold of it.	This is simple a pictogram of a mouth SAYing something. The lines are soundwaves. No need to complicate it.	2	4	ゲン、ゴン	い.う、こと	言行 (げんこう), 言論 (げんろん), 宣言 (せんげん), 言う (い.う), 言 (こと)
358	admonish	Cảnh	警	admonish, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, say, words, keitai, mouth, mouth2	19	15	Here you have a perfect example of how an apparently impossible snarl of strokes becomes a snap to learn once you know its elements. The idea of being admonished for something already sets up a superior-inferior relationship between you and the person you are supposed to stand in awe of. While you are restricted to answering in honorifics, the superior can use straightforward and ordinary words.		To admonish is to enforce awe by means of words.	Watch in awe as mom admonishes the rude clerk with words that you´ve never heard her use before.	6	3	ケイ	いまし.める	
359	plot	Kế	計	plot, say, words, keitai, mouth, ten, needle	9	15	Words and a meter's needle combine to form the sense of plot: to talk over plans and to calculate a course of action.		A plot is a summary of a book that can be given in ten words.	Say-ten´s (satan´s) evil plot.	2	4	ケイ	はか.る、はか.らう	計らう (はか.らう), 計る (はか.る)
361	prison	Ngục	獄	prison, pack of wild dogs, say, words, keitai, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop	14	15	Although we did not make note of it at the time, the kanji for dog is also a low-grade term for a spy. And later (Frame 1517) we will meet another association of criminals with dogs. The prison here depicts a pack of wild dogs (the long-timers and hardened criminals) into which the poor little chihuahua (first offender) has been cast. The only thing he has to protect himself against the pack are his shrill and frightened words.		The wild dog family visits their cousin in prison. They exchange words over the interphone at the visiting booth.	The only thing keeping the new chihuahua inmate from being ´initiated´ by the pack of wild dogs were his quick words in prison.	JH	1	ゴク		
362	revise	Đính (Hai bên bàn bạc với nhau cho kĩ rồi mới thỏa thuận gọi là đính. )	訂	revise, say, words, keitai, mouth, street, nail, spike	9	15	"After completing the first draft, you revise it by nailing down your words and ""hammering"" them into shape."		Revise, revise and revise until you have all the words nailed down.	Remember how Martin Luther revised the words of the catholic church and nailed his 95 Theses at the door of the church in Wittenberg?	JH	1	テイ		
364	chastise	Thảo (Đánh, đánh giết kẻ có tội gọi)	討	chastise, say, words, keitai, mouth, glue	10	15	Words spoken to chastise us stick to us like glue in a way no other words can.		I said some bad words, and my mother chastised me by washing my mouth out with glue instead of soap!	"In Colonial New England, people who committed adultery had words glued to them. A famous example is the ""A"" worn by Hester Prynn for committing adultery (i.e., not being chaste). In this way, words glued to you are supposed to chastise you and prevent further breaches of chastity."	6	1	トウ	う.つ	討つ (う.つ)
365	instruction	Huấn	訓	instruction, say, words, keitai, mouth, stream, flood	10	15	"The personalism connoted by the word instruction, as opposed to ""teaching"" or ""discipline,"" suits the picture here of words guiding one's progress like the gentle flowing of a stream. Even the etymology of the word instruction suggests the sense of ""pouring into""."		The best type of Japanese INSTRUCTION is full immersion, which consists of going to Japan and swimming in the stream of words that surrounds you every day.	Listen carefully to the words of instruction before you try swimming in the river.	4	2	クン、キン	おし.える、よ.む、くん.ずる	
366	imperial edict	Chiếu	詔	imperial edict, say, words, keitai, mouth, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, mouth2	12	15	The imperial edict, spoken with the force of unquestionable law, is made up of words intended to seduce the masses - be it through fear or respect - to follow obediently.		"The mnemonic ""words to seduce the masses"" was just too vague and I kept forgetting it. So now instead I picture a seductive female reading aloud the imperial edict to the masses, thus ""seducing"" the masses."	The emperor did not need an imperial edict; his words were more than enough to seduce Anakin to the dark side.	JH	1	ショウ	みことのり	詔 (みことのり)
367	packed	Cật (Hỏi vặn.)	詰	packed, say, words, keitai, mouth, aerosol, good luck, samurai, mouth, mouth2	13	15	"A piece of writing that is pregnant with meaning and needs to be reread several times to be understood we refer to colloquially as ""packed."" The character sees the words as sealed tightly inside an aerosol can."		WORDS of GOOD LUCK are PACKED into fortune cookies.	Nowadays, grafitti comes pre-packaged. The factory takes a bunch of words and aerosol cans and then makes sure the words get tightly packed inside. All you have to do is spray and everything takes care of itself!	JH	2	キツ、キチ	つ.める、つ.め、-づ.め、つ.まる、つ.む	詰まる (つ.まる), 詰む (つ.む), 詰める (つ.める)
368	tale	Thoại (Lời nói, phàm các lời nói tầm thường đều gọi là thoại.)	話	tale, say, words, keitai, mouth, tongue, thousand, mouth, mouth2	13	15	"That the words of the tongue should come to mean a tale is clear from the etymology: a tale is something ""talked,"" not something read from a book."		Tales are always spoken, not written, and because of this, words fly out of your tongue, rather than your pen.	Tales are spoken words, passed on from person to person, eventually being spoken by a thousand mouths.	2	5	ワ	はな.す、はなし	話す (はな.す), 話 (はなし)
369	recitation	Vịnh (Ngâm vịnh, đọc văn thơ đến chỗ có âm điệu phải kéo dài giọng đọc ra gọi là vịnh.)	詠	recitation, say, words, keitai, mouth, eternity, drop, water	12	15	Listening to the words of poets reciting their poetry is like being transported for a moment into eternity where the rules of everyday life have been suspended.		Listening to the words in a recitation of Vogon poetry is worse than spending an eternity in hell. [Note: I assume those 2 reports are to warn against possible confusion with poem (#346) but how can you confuse Vogon poetry with an actual poem? Anyway, it´s the next frame, so it should be easy to keep them straight... Or maybe there´s a kanji for Vogon in RTK3?].	If you study some words for a recitation, there is a good chance they will be stuck in your memory for all eternity.	JH	1	エイ	よ.む、うた.う	詠む (よ.む)
370	poem	Thi	詩	poem, say, words, keitai, mouth, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	13	15	Since silence is treasured so highly at a Buddhist temple the words spoken there must be well-chosen. Perhaps this is why the records of the monks often read to us like poems. Before going on, back up a frame and make sure you have kept poem and recitation distinct in your mind.		A poem is a temple of words.	WORDS used in a TEMPLE must be very well chosen. That´s why most people will speak using a poem if they are SAYING something in a TEMPLE.	3	1	シ	うた	
371	word	Ngữ	語	word, say, words, keitai, mouth, I, five, mouth, mouth2	14	15	Whereas the character for say focused on the actual talking, that for words stresses the fact that although it is I who say them, the words of a language are not my own. You can see the clear distinction between I and words just by looking at the kanji.		The simplest word to say is I.	May I say a word about that?	2	5	ゴ	かた.る、かた.らう	語らう (かた.らう), 語る (かた.る)
372	read	ĐỘC	読	read, say, words, keitai, mouth, sell, sale, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs	14	15	In the age of advertising, most words we read are out to sell some product or point of view.		Read the WORDS used to SELL things.	People will say (言) almost anything to make a sale (売); don´t believe everything you read (読).	2	5	ドク、トク、トウ	よ.む、-よ.み	読書 (どくしょ), 音読 (おんどく), 購読 (こうどく), 読本 (どくほん), 読む (よ.む)
373	tune	Điệu	調	tune, say, words, keitai, mouth, circumference, running track, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, mouth2	15	15	A complete tune is composed not only of a succession of notes but also of one lap of the words that go with it.		To tune an old-fashioned radio, you turn the dial the full range of the circumference, until you can clearly hear what´s being said.	words + circumference The most catchy tunes are words the go round and round the circuference of your head and you can´t get it out of your mind.	3	3	チョウ	しら.べる、しら.べ、ととの.う、ととの.える	調べる (しら.べる), 調う (ととの.う), 調える (ととの.える)
374	discuss	Đàm	談	discuss, say, words, keitai, mouth, inflammation, fire, fire2	15	15	"In almost every attempt to discuss an issue, the fervor of one's convictions comes to the surface and creates an inflammation of words (if you will, the ""cuss"" in discuss)."		Think of an online discussion group where misunderstanding someone´s words leads to flaming. An angry discussion = inflamed words.	Internet discussions often involve inflammatory words. Flame war!	3	3	ダン		
375	consent	Nặc (Vâng, ừ, ưng cho.)	諾	consent, say, words, keitai, mouth, young, flowers, by one’s side, mouth, mouth2	15	15	"The words of the young do not have legal validity unless backed up by ""parental consent."""		The words of the very young are useless without CONSENT from their elders.	"Delores might say, ""Yes!"", but she´s way too young give any legal consent."	JH	1	ダク		
376	rebuke	Dụ (Cảnh báo)	諭	rebuke, say, words, keitai, mouth, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber	16	15	"The stern tone of a rebuke is seen here in the image of words spoken at a meeting of butchers (See frame 307) waving their choppers at one another and ""cutting one another down"" as only butchers can."		A PETA activist speaks at a meeting of butchers to rebuke them.	I imagine Socrates gate-crashing a meeting of butchers and REBUKING them: ´You´ve been killing things again; you have, haven´t you?´ while the embarrassed butchers blush and try to hide their knives behind their backs and stand in front of hanging sides of beef.	JH	1	ユ	さと.す	諭す (さと.す)
377	style	Thức	式	style, arrow, craft	6	16	"Take style in its sense of some fashion design or model. Then let the element arrow and craft stand for the well-known style of shirts known as ""Arrow shirts"" because of the little arrow sewn on each one."		Each Indian tribe crafts their arrows in a certain style..	The latest style is shirts crafted out of arrows.	3	3	シキ		
378	test	Thí (thử)	試	test, say, words, keitai, mouth, style, arrow, craft	13	16	When a manufacturer produces a new style for the market, the first thing that is done is to run a test on consumers, asking them to speak their opinions frankly about the product. Never mind the anachronism (the kanji was there well before our capitalistic market system) if it helps you remember.		In an essay test, you are judged on both your choice of words and your writing style.	The Japanese oral exam was a test of my speaking style.	4	4	シ	こころ.みる、ため.す	試みる (こころ.みる), 試す (ため.す)
379	II (two)	NHỊ	弐	II, two, arrows, quiver	6	16	We use the Roman numeral II here to stress that this kanji is an older form of the kanji for two. Think of two arrows in a quiver, standing up like the numeral II.		II (older form of writing 2). After shooting one arrow (the dash top left), I have 2 arrows left in my quiver (bottom left).	Once you have two old arrows left in your quiver, you better start running...!	JH	1	ニ、ジ	ふた.つ、そえ	
380	range	Vực	域	range, soil, dirt, ground, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor	11	16	From its original meaning of a defined area or zone, a range has also come to mean a grazing land where cowboys roam and do whatever it is they do with cows. When the herds have all been driven to market, there is a great homecoming fiesta like that pictured here. As soon as the cowboys come home, home on the range, the first thing they do is kiss the ground (the mouth on the floor), and then get on with the fiesta.		An astronaut lands back at the launch range, kisses the earth beneath him with his mouth, then heads off to a fiesta to celebrate a safe flight.	"Instead of Heisig´s ""Fiesta"" I use ""Spear"". Why? A spear is just a DROP extra on an Arrow. 域, range actually means range as in limits/boundary/border sort of range(In a box it was the old meaning for Country國 (581). Ok way too much etymology here, but back to story. With your SPEAR standing in a HOLE on the FLOOR with SOIL to its left9as you dug some out), you can see the RANGE of the spear in attacking a possible enemy (re Diablo and other RPGs, spear´s have range)."	6	2	イキ		
381	burglar	Tặc	賊	burglar, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, ten, needle, fiesta	13	16	From a burglar's point of view, a fiesta is an occasion to takeout the old lock picking needle and break into the unattended safe filled with the family shells (the old form of money, as we saw in frames 84 and 206).		Burglars... those guys!!! Burglars only want money (clams) so that they can get needles (drugs) and party (fiesta)!	After the fiesta, we found out that some burglar had stolen our money, probably breaking in with a lockpick needle...	JH	1	ゾク		
382	plantation	Tài (trồng)	栽	plantation, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, tree, wood	10	16	On a fruit plantation it is the trees that one is particularly grateful for at the time of Thanksgiving. Imagine yourself inviting a few representative trees from the fields and orchards to join you around the table to give thanks.		The plantation is where we get our Christmas trees. We pick them out at Thanksgiving to be sure we get a good one.	During Thanksgiving, all the trees on the plantation celebrate the harvest. It´s a good time for them, too.	JH	1	サイ		
383	load	Tải, Tái (nâng)	載	load, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, car, vehicle	13	16	One loads bales on a wagon or cart in preparation for the great Hay Ride that follows the Thanksgiving dinner each year.		After eating a big Thanksgiving dinner, you have to be careful in the car ride home not to drop a load in your pants.	After ´Thanksgiving´ dinner, my girlfriend gave me a BJ on the drive back home. I blew my ´load´ and ´soiled´ the ´car´. But it was LOADS of fun! Please report this story if this makes you feel uncomfortable :).	JH	1	サイ	の.せる、の.る	載せる (の.せる), 載る (の.る)
384	overgrown	Mậu (tốt, cây cỏ tốt tươi)	茂	overgrown, flowers, parade	8	16	The sense of the key word overgrown is of something growing luxuriously, though not necessarily in excess - in this case a whole parade of weeds (outcast flowers). By way of exception, the flowers take their normal place over the enclosure.		The gay parade looks astonishing, as if overgrown with flowers.	When your garden gets OVERGROWN, it´s like the plants are mocking you. Here, you can see the roses actually parading around the yard, wilfully choking out the other, more docile plants. Then they actually go and parade down the street!	JH	1	モ	しげ.る	茂る (しげ.る)
386	turn into	Thành	成	turn into, parade, sword, dagger	6	16	"Let the phrase ""turn into"" suggest some sort of a magical change. What happens here is that the parade marching down main street turns into a dagger-throwing bout between competing bands. Note how only one stroke has to be added to make the change."		It only takes a single stroke of a dagger for a parade to TURN INTO a bloodbath.	The gay parade suddenly TURNED INTO a DAGGER throwing fight.	4	3	セイ、ジョウ	な.る、な.す、-な.す	成功 (せいこう), 完成 (かんせい), 賛成 (さんせい), 成す (な.す), 成る (な.る)
387	castle	Thành	城	castle, soil, dirt, ground, turn into, parade, sword, dagger	9	16	In this frame, we see a mound of dirt that is being turned into a castle (the way you may have done as a child playing on the beach).		The sand castle is just the soil (#150) that turns into a castle.	Someday this mound of dirt here will turn into our CASTLE, the ants think to themselves when scoping out a new ant hill.	6	2	ジョウ	しろ	城 (しろ)
388	sincerity	Thành (thực)	誠	sincerity, say, words, keitai, mouth, turn into, sword, dagger, parade	13	16	The sure sign of sincerity is that one's mere words are turned into deeds.		Sincerity happens when what you say actually turns into something.	Sincerity is turning your words into actions.	6	1	セイ	まこと	誠 (まこと)
389	intimidate	Uy (oai)	威	intimidate, march, women, woman	9	16	Here we see a march of women demonstrating on behalf of equal rights, something extremely intimidating to the male chauvinist population.		The march of women - against intimidation in the workplace - is pretty intimidating in itself!	"Interesting that this kanji also has the meanings of ""dignity"" and ""threaten."" I can see how a march of women in Japan would be seen as intimidating by most men."	JH	1	イ	おど.す、おど.し、おど.かす	
390	destroy	Diệt	滅	destroy, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, fire	13	16	Picture a march of flames demonstrating against the Fire Department for their right to destroy, but being doused with water by the police riot squads.		Water flows down to destroy the march of fire.	"Use a water cannon to destroy a line of marching fire monsters. I keep mixing this one up with disaster (#167) and demolition (#400). Remember, you DESTROY monsters (think of the Godzilla movie ""Destroy All Monsters!""). Fires and floods are natural DISASTERs. And DEMOLITION is something you carefully do while wearing protective garments. (vaguely based on stefanot´s balrog story)."	JH	1	メツ	ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす	滅びる (ほろ.びる), 滅ぼす (ほろ.ぼす)
391	dwindle	Giảm	減	dwindle, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, mouth	12	16	A group of unquenchable mouths sets out on a march across the country, drinking water wherever they find it until the water supply has dwindled to a trickle, triggering a national disaster.		When WATER was tossed on the PROTESTORS (a march of mouths), the numbers began to DWINDLE.	When water supplies dwindled, the population became a horde of dry mouths, marching to seize the water in the neighboring kingdom.	5	2	ゲン	へ.る、へ.らす	減らす (へ.らす), 減る (へ.る)
393	scaffold	SẠN (Giá để đồ)	桟	scaffold, tree, wood, float, fiesta	10	16	Prior to the use of metal, trees were once cut down and bound together for use as scaffolding material. In the case of this kanji, what is being constructed is not a skyscraper but a simple float.		Japanese festival floats are often so tall they need wood scaffolds to be completed. (http://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5909.html).	You need a SCAFFOLD made of WOOD to build a FLOAT if it will be several stories high.	JH	1	サン、セン	かけはし	
394	coin	TIỀN	銭	coin, metal, gold, float, fiesta	14	16	Those special gold-colored tokens minted each year for the Mardi Gras and thrown into the crowds from people on the floats give us the kanji for coins.		Political hopefuls in Rome threw gold COINS from floats when they were campaigning for office.	Interesting fact: The Japanese one yen coin is the only coin in the world that can float on water. http://www.hanamiweb.com/floatingyen.jpg.	5	1	セン、ゼン	ぜに、すき	銭 (ぜに)
395	shallow	Thiển	浅	shallow, water, water droplets, water pistol, float, fiesta	9	16	An entourage of floats going from one town to the next must always seek a shallow place to cross the water. Try to picture what happens if they don't.		The water can´t be too SHALLOW if you expect to float.	The water isn´t shallow enough to ford (#372). We´ll have to cross by float!	4	2	セン	あさ.い	浅い (あさ.い)
396	stop	Chỉ (dừng lại)	止	stop, footprint	4	17	The character for stop is easiest to learn as a pictograph, though you have to take a moment to see it. Take it as a rather crude drawing of a footprint: the first 3 strokes represent the front of the foot and the last the heel. The big toe (stroke 2 sticking out to the right) on the right indicates that this is a left foot.	* Although the meaning of stop will be retained, we will return often to the pictographic meaning of footprint.	If you find in the ground a walking stick with a magic wand, STOP! Maybe it´s some kind of macumba/black magic/voodoo bad thing.	If you don´t remember this one from the 10,000,000 STOP signs on roads all over Japan, you´re beyyond help!	2	4	シ	と.まる、-ど.まり、と.める、-と.める、-ど.め、とど.める、とど.め、とど.まる、や.める、や.む、-や.む、よ.す、-さ.す、-さ.し	止まる (と.まる), 止める (と.める)
397	walk	BỘ	歩	walk, stop, footprint, few	8	17	Footprints that follow one another a few at a time indicate walking.		When walking your pet, you must stop a few times along the way when nature calls.	When you learn to walk, you take your steps a few at a time. Picture a clumsy but happy toddler who falls every few steps but keeps getting up to try again.	2	4	ホ、ブ、フ	ある.く、あゆ.む	歩道 (ほどう), 徒歩 (とほ), 進歩 (しんぽ), 歩合 (ぶあい), 日歩 (ひぶ), 歩む (あゆ.む), 歩く (ある.く)
398	ford	THIỆP	渉	ford, water, water droplets, water pistol, walk, stop, footprint, few	11	17	To ford a body of water means to walk across it.		The new Ford Jesus. It can do everything except WALK on WATER.	A ford is a place where one can walk through the water, a place only a few footsteps deep.	JH	1	ショウ	わた.る	
399	repeatedly	Tần (luôn)	頻	repeatedly, walk, stop, footprint, few, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	17	17	The image of something occurring repeatedly, over and over again, is of having one's head walked on.		I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head.	"Are you familiar with the joke about the ditzy secretary who repeatedly walked back and forth forcibly over all the pages of her boss´ most important letters. When confronted she just says ""Well you said they needed to be stamped before they´re mailed.""."	JH	1	ヒン	しき.りに	
400	agreement	Khẳng (uh đc)	肯	agreement, stop, footprint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	8	17	Seeing footprints on someone's flesh indicates a rather brutal way of having secured that person's agreement.		A secret agreement between a covert gov´t agency and aliens states that we will not step foot on the moon again in return for alien technology.	NASA and Armstrong made an agreement: They´d never tell anyone that no-one actually stepped foot on the moon.	JH	2	コウ	がえんじ.る	
401	undertake	Xí (ngóng)	企	undertake, umbrella, stop, footprint	6	17	To undertake a project is to take some idea floating in the air and stop it so that it can be brought down to earth and become a reality. Here we see some undertaking made to stop under a beach umbrella.		I will UNDERTAKE this project: To sell UMBRELLAS in a bus STOP.	The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an umbrella until he stopped moving.	JH	1	キ	くわだ.てる、たくら.む	企てる (くわだ.てる)
402	curriculum	Lịch (lý lịch, lịch sử)	歴	curriculum, cliff, grove, tree, wood, stop, footprint, tree2, wood2	14	17	That same grove of trees we met in frame 226 shows up here in the character for curriculum (in the sense of a record of one's life or academic achievements, the curriculum vitae). Instead of the grove making its way slowly through the surface of the cliff as before, here we see it stopped, much the same as a curriculum vitae calls a halt to the calendar and talks only about the past.		A CURRICULUM is a calendar that replaces days with reasons to stop having fun.	A little like a calendar, your CV records your footsteps through time.	4	2	レキ、レッキ		
403	warrior	Vũ, Võ, đối lại với văn	武	warrior, one, arrow, stop, footprint	8	17	With a quiver of arrows set on one's back, the goal of the warrior depicted here is not to attack but merely to stop the attack of others: the oldest excuse in history!		ONE-ARROW can STOP a warrior.	A great warrior can stop any 0pponent with one arrow.	5	2	ブ、ム	たけ.し	武力 (ぶりょく), 武士 (ぶし), 文武 (ぶんぶ)
404	levy	Phú (thu thuế)	賦	levy, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, warrior, one, hstop, footprint, arrow	15	17	A certain portion of shells (money) is collected by the warrior from the local villages as he passes through to defray the costs of keeping the land safe, and this is called a levy.		A warrior stands guard at a bridge collecting shells as a levy for any who want to pass.	Drove my Chevy to the levy but the levy was dry. And those good old warrior boys, drinking whiskey and rye, said pay up the clams or you´ll die. Pay up the clams or you´ll die....	JH	1	フ、ブ		
405	correct	Chánh (phải, chánh đáng)	正	correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint	5	17	"""A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step,"" says the Chinese proverb. Here we see one footprint, complementing that proverb with the sound advice that if the first step is not made correctly, the whole point of the journey will be forfeited. This is the ideal that teachers are supposed to have in correcting their students, and parents in correcting their children."		If you do it correct on the first attempt you can stop.	The correct way of learning Japanese? First, stop everything you´re doing. Then, go pick up a copy of Heisig´s book and work from there.	1	4	セイ、ショウ	ただ.しい、ただ.す、まさ、まさ.に	正義 (せいぎ), 正誤 (せいご), 訂正 (ていせい), 正しい (ただ.しい), 正す (ただ.す), 正 (まさ)
406	evidence	Chứng	証	evidence, say, words, keitai, mouth, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint	12	17	"Words that testify to the correctness of some fact are classified as evidence. (Here we see a good example of how the more common primitive element takes the ""strong"" position to the left, even though it has more strokes.)"		Your words must be absolutely correct if you plan to use them as evidence.	If what you say is indeed correct, we could use use your testimony as evidence.	5	1	ショウ	あかし	証 (あかし)
407	politics	Chính, chánh	政	politics, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint, taskmaster	9	17	To the many definitions for politics that already exist, this character offers yet another: correct taskmastering. Think about what the primitives tell us. On the one hand, we see the pessimistic wisdom that politics has to do with taskmastering, maneuvering people with or without their will. And on the other, we see the campaign assurances that this duty can be performed correctly if only the right candidate is given a chance.		Those involved in politics are always trying to elect the correct taskmaster.	Insane political correctness on the left, and facists taskmasters on the right- thats politics in a nutshell right there.	5	3	セイ、ショウ	まつりごと、まん	政治 (せいじ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 家政 (かせい), 政 (まつりごと)
408	determine	Định	定	determine, house, mend	8	17	Determination, in the sense of settling on a certain course of action, is likened here to mending one's house.		In The Karate Kid, the boy must prove his determination by MENDING his teacher´s HOUSE in various ways.	"People who decide to renovate (ooh, that´s a fancy word, let´s say ""mend"") their houses must be very determined DIYers. (Using DIY helps me remember this story when I see DEtermine)."	3	3	テイ、ジョウ	さだ.める、さだ.まる、さだ.か	定価 (ていか), 安定 (あんてい), 決定 (けってい), 定か (さだ.か), 定まる (さだ.まる), 定める (さだ.める)
409	lock	Đĩnh (thoi vàng, thoi bạc)	錠	lock, metal, gold, determine, determined, house, mend	16	17	Metal of itself doesn't lock. It needs to be so determined by a locksmith. Now make a concrete image of that.		Even if you lock up your GOLD, a DETERMINED thief will get it in the end.	The best stories for this kanji tend to have a thief in them, which always makes me confuse them with the kanji for burglar (357). So, let´s try this one: My girlfriend wears a metal chastity belt with a lock but I am determined to open it! I must get inside!	JH	1	ジョウ		
410	run	Tẩu	走	run, soil, dirt, ground, mend	7	17	Running, we are told here, mends the soil. Observe in the following frames how this kanji can embrace other elements from below, much the same way as the element for road does; and how, in order to do this, the final stroke needs to be lengthened.		Hint: This kanji is NOT soil on top of mend, as Heisig claims - that would duplicate one of the strokes. Instead, it is 10 on top of mend. So my story is: If you run 10 miles, you will need to mend your socks!	The sports ground needs MENDING after the game as the players have been RUNNING around which has caused the ground to be chopped up.	2	4	ソウ	はし.る	走る (はし.る)
411	transcend	Siêu	超	transcend, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth	12	17	When one is running after something, the goal that seduces one is said to transcend the seeker.		A successful marathon runner needs to be able to transcend seductions, such as the possibility of rest, shelter from the rain, or a cold beer.	To transcend oneself is to reach a higher plane of reality. A head shaven monk is telling me this. We are in a Tibetan monastery. He was once an athlete, a runner. He used to run everywhere, until one day, he saw a beautiful cheerleader along his path. She tried very hard to seduce him, but he forced himself to transcend his urges. He did reach his running goal, and he has became a lonely monk. He wishes now he had just broken down back then and....	JH	2	チョウ	こ.える、こ.す	超える (こ.える), 超す (こ.す)
412	proceed	Phó (chạy tới)	赴	proceed, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, magic wand, augury	9	17	In proceeding to a new city or a new job, something in you runs ahead with excitement, and something else holds you back, like a divining rod built into your psyche warning you to check things out carefully before rushing in too wildly.		"Don´t run into trouble, Dumbledore tells Harry. ""Proceed with caution with your wand out.""."	While running, my magic wand tells me where to proceed.	JH	1	フ	おもむ.く	赴く (おもむ.く)
413	surpass	Việt (qua, vượt qua)	越	surpass, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, parade	12	17	"Here we see two parades in competition, each trying to surpass the other by running at high speed from one town to the next. Note the little ""hook"" at the end of the first stroke of the element for parade. This is the ONLY time it appears like this in the kanji treated in this book."		The person in charge of running the parade surpassed all our expectations (by just a extra drop...).	The parade of runners are all trying to SURPASS each other - and they end up running all the way to Vietnam (note that this kanji is also used for the country of Vietnam).	JH	3	エツ、オツ	こ.す、-こ.す、-ご.し、こ.える、-ご.え	越える (こ.える), 越す (こ.す)
414	just so	Thị (ấy thế, lời nói chỉ định.)	是	just so, sun, day, mend	9	17	"In this kanji we are shown someone spending an entire day at mending one stocking, because they want the job done ""just so."" Be sure to make a clear image of a finicky old fusspot to make the abstract idea as concrete as possible."		´Sun´ ´Mend´ - It just so happens that sunshine can mend your gloomy spirits.	My image here is of Fabrice (the guy who runs this website) spending all day obsessively mending the code so this page looks just so....	JH	1	ゼ、シ	これ、この、ここ	
415	topic	Đề	題	topic, just so, sun, day, mend, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	17	In many kinds of research, one can find information on a given topic only if the headings are prepared just so.		"The ""TOPIC"" of the day´s newspaper must be placed JUST SO at the top of the PAGE to attract attention."	You spend ALL DAY, mending your socks JUST SO. Then you have a look at the HEADING of the newspaper. The topic---FREE SOCKS TO BE GIVEN AWAY!!!!	3	4	ダイ		
416	dike	Đê	堤	dike, soil, dirt, ground, just so, sun, day, mend	12	17	A dike is a successful bit of engineering only if the amount of earth piled up is measured just so for the height and pressure of the water it is meant to contain.		Making a dike is all about arranging the soil just so....	The little Dutch boy has his finger stuck in the dike, and that´s the only thing keeping his town from going under. He really really needs to go to the bathroom though, so he devises a plan to carefully add a bit of dirt - there, place individual bits in just so - there, I think it´s good enough. Pull it out -----yes! Success!	JH	1	テイ	つつみ	堤 (つつみ)
417	build	Kiến (dựng lên, đặt)	建	build, brush, stretch	9	17	To construct a building, you first draw a set of plans (the writing brush) and then s-t-r-e-t-c-h your drawing out to scale in reality.		Build is easy to remember if you can remember that archtiechts have two steps in building. 1. Take a brush and brush out the blueprints. 2. Get a visual image of the blueprints all rolled up like they usually are. The second step is easy, it´s just the architecht stretching out the blueprints and showing it to his clients.	A construction worker´s classic morning. Stretch, brush his teeth, and then start to build.	4	4	ケン、コン	た.てる、た.て、-だ.て、た.つ	建築 (けんちく), 建議 (けんぎ), 封建的 (ほうけんてき), 建つ (た.つ), 建てる (た.てる)
419	prolong	Duyên (kéo dài)	延	prolong, drop, stop, footprint, stretch	8	17	This character is a kind of pictographic image of how prolonging is a clever way of stopping things by trying to stretch them out a little bit at a time (the extra drop at the top of stop). Be sure to get a concrete image of this process, by imagining yourself prolonging something you can really, physically, stretch.		Stretching correctly prolongs life. Even the top part of 正 is stretching...	"Here´s a great mnemonic: ""stop, drop, and stretch (!?)."" Now let´s associate it with ´prolong´: if you´re ever in an uncomfortable spot, like being asked tricky questions or caught in a lie, just PROLONG the situation - stop, drop, and stretch. They may be confused by your odd behaviour, but it´ll buy you a few moments to think up another good lie to get out of the sticky situation!"	6	2	エン	の.びる、の.べる、の.べ、の.ばす	延ばす (の.ばす), 延びる (の.びる), 延べる (の.べる)
420	nativity	Đản (sinh ra)	誕	nativity, say, words, keitai, mouth, prolonged, drop, stop, footprint, stretch	15	17	The key word of course calls to mind the feast of Christmas. As the famous poem at the start of St. John's gospel tells us, the nativity we celebrate at Christmas had its origins at the very start of time and governs all of human history: it represents the prolongation of the eternal Word in time and space.		Nativity = born, being born. Think of birth as a painful and prolonged event. And of course, all the words and curses being yelled at the soon-to-be father for doing this to her!	When you are being born ( nativity ), your mother´s WORDS are PROLONGED. (Thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis huuuuuuuuuuuuuurtss a lottttttttt~!! Owwwwwww!!!).	6	1	タン		
421	cornerstone	Sở (Đá tảng, dùng kê chân cột.)	礎	cornerstone, stone, rock, grove, tree, wood, zoo, critters, tree2, wood2	18	17	"This character depicts a cornerstone as a stone set at the end of a wildlife preserve (the ""zoo in the grove"")."		Features like stones and groves of trees are the cornerstones of a happy zoo.	A zoo which is still under construction is already full of animals. At the moment, only the cornerstone has been set in place. To temporarily keep the animals from escaping, a closely-packed grove of small trees is planted around the stone. (Note that this zoo needs some serious mending.).	JH	1	ソ	いしずえ	礎 (いしずえ)
422	bridegroom	Tế (Chàng rể.)	婿	bridegroom, woman, zoo, critters, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	12	17	"What makes a man a bridegroom is obviously a woman and her dowry, here presented as a small zoo (animals were often used for this purpose in earlier societies) and a month away from it all (the ""honeymoon"")."		The virgin bridegroom tries to understand the new, mysterious part of his woman´s body - but with little success. It´s a zoo down there! (primitives placement: the part of the body is ´down there´ - the woman is ´left´ unsatisfied).	The only reason anyone talks about a bridegroom is if they´re about to or have just gotten married. Of course, then you have to go on your honeymoon. So you take your woman to the zoo for a month. Pretty cool honeymoon.	JH	1	セイ	むこ	婿 (むこ)
423	garment	Y	衣	garment, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	6	18	"At the top we see the top hat, and at the bottom a pictographic representation of the folds of a garment. If you break the ""4-fold"" fold into 2 sets of 2 strokes, you will find it easier to remember."	"* Used as a primitive, the additional meanings of cloak or scarf will come in handy. What has to be noted particularly are the changes in shape the kanji can undergo when it becomes an element in other kanji. In fact, it is the most volatile of all the kanji we shall treat, and for that reason deserves special attention here. When it appears to the left, it looks like a hiragana ne (ネ) with an extra drop on the right, and we shall take it to mean cloak. At the bottom, when attached to the stroke immediately above it, the first two strokes (the top hat) are omitted, which we shall take to mean a scarf. On rare occasions, the element can be torn right across the middle, with the first 2 strokes appearing at the top and the last 4 at the bottom of another primitive or cluster of primitive, in which cases we shall speak of a top hat and scarf. And finally, of course, it can keep its original kanji shape, along with its original meaning of garment in general. Note that when any of the above forms have something beneath them (as in frame 429), the third from final stroke is ""unhooked."""	The garments most commonly associated with the craft of a magician are the top hat and the magic wand. (It´s a stretch, but the way I remembered this kanji is through that phrase. This way you can remember it through using primitives we have already learned.).	The only garments allowed in this club are top hat and scarf.	4	2	イ、エ	ころも、きぬ、-ぎ	衣 (ころも)
424	tailor	Tài (Cắt áo)	裁	tailor, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	12	18	You might think here of garment that have been specially tailored for Thanksgiving celebrations to look like traditional Pilgrim garb.		The tailor was hard at work making sure all the pilgrims were dressed in their best garments for thanksgiving.	The tailor worked hard after thanksgiving to alter garments so they´d fit people who´d eaten too much at their thanksgiving dinners.	6	1	サイ	た.つ、さば.く	裁く (さば.く), 裁つ (た.つ)
425	attire	Trang	装	attire, turtle, samurai, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	12	18	"The character for attire can be remembered as a picture of what we may call a ""turtle-samurai"" sweater. At the top we see the turtle-samurai and at the bottom the element for garment."		The TURTLE SAMURAI needs special GARMENTs for his ATTIRE since his body is much more ROBUST than others.	The ninja turtles tried to go eat at a fancy restaurant, but they were told to come back after their were dressed in proper attire. However, it´s too difficult for them to find proper garments because they bodies are so robust! (sannomiya + drwarrior12).	6	2	ソウ、ショウ	よそお.う、よそお.い	装置 (そうち), 服装 (ふくそう), 変装 (へんそう), 装う (よそお.う)
426	back	Lí (Trong, cái gì ở trong đều gọi là lí.)	裏	back, top hat, scarf, computer	13	18	An innocent looking top hat and scarf lying there in front of you, turned over, reveal a hidden computer sewn into the back of each - obviously the tools of a master spy. Such experiences teach one always to have a look at the back side of things.		The computer had carefully dressed up in clothes to look human. It was n´t until I looked at the back and saw the cables and stuff that I realized what it was.	Can computers be gay? I´m not sure, but mine always wears a top hat and scarf, and for some reason its back door port is always open...	6	2	リ	うら	裏 (うら)
427	demolition	HOẠI	壊	demolition, soil, dirt, ground, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	16	18	The right half of this character shows a garment woven so fine that it can pass through the eye of a needle, fittingly draped around the slithering, ethereal form of a poltergeist. In this frame, our eerie visitor brushes its robes against a nearby block of apartments and completely demolishes them, razing them to the ground.		If you stand too close to a DEMOLITION site, the dust might sting you like NEEDLES in your EYE and get your GARMENTs all dirty.	Since that needle eye thing turns up a lot, I turned it into Darth Vader. It kinda looks like him to me, with the eye being his metal mouth piece thing. So, Darth Vader swings his cape (his garment) demolishing a nearby building, leaving nothing but a pile of dirt.	JH	1	カイ、エ	こわ.す、こわ.れる、やぶ.る	壊す (こわ.す), 壊れる (こわ.れる)
428	pathetic	Ai (thương)	哀	pathetic, top hat, scarf, mouth	9	18	A drunken sod in a tattered top hat and soiled silk scarf with a giant mouth guzzling something or other gives us a pathetic character role in which W. C. Fields might find himself right at home.		One of my friends with a crazy sense of fashion loves to wear a tophat and a scarf so that you can´t see his whole face but only his mouth. He thinks it´s cool. I think it´s pathetic.	"A poor, homeless child like Oliver Twist, with a hungry open mouth, is pathetic-- in the original sense of the noun ""pathos."" The tattered tophat and scarf he wears only adds to the pathos."	JH	1	アイ	あわ.れ、あわ.れむ、かな.しい	哀れ (あわ.れ), 哀れむ (あわ.れむ)
429	distant	Viễn (>< cận)	遠	distant, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf, road	13	18	A distant figure on the road is such a blur it looks like a lidded crock wearing a silk scarf.		Keep distant from a lidded crock on the road wrapped in a scarf. It might be a bomb.	When traveling to a distant land, what better way of keeping warm on the road is there than carrying a warm lidded crock and wearing a scarf?	2	3	エン、オン	とお.い	遠近 (えんきん), 永遠 (えいえん), 敬遠 (けいえん), 遠い (とお.い)
430	monkey	Viên (con vượn)	猿	monkey, pack of wild dogs, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf	13	18	This clever little monkey has captured an entire pack of wild dogs, locked them inside a lidded crock, and wrapped the whole thing up in a silk scarf to present to the dogcatcher.		The MONKEY likes to play hide and seek with the PACK of WILD DOGS by hiding in the LIDDED CROCK. But he is easy to see because the SCARF he always wears is at the base of the LIDDED CROCK.	To catch a monkey, chase him with wild dogs into a lidded crock, then tie it with a scarf.	JH	1	エン	さる	猿 (さる)
431	first time	Sơ (mới, trước)	初	first time, cloak, sword, dagger	7	18	"The primitives here take care of themselves: cloak and dagger .What I leave to you is to decide on an appropriate connotation for ""first time"" to take advantage of them."		This is the first time we´ve been out of the Shire, Mr. Frodo! Says Sam, covering himself with his cloak and clutching his dagger.	On his FIRST TIME, he cloaked his dagger with a Trojan.	4	3	ショ	はじ.め、はじ.めて、はつ、はつ-、うい-、-そ.める、-ぞ.め	初 (うい), 初める (そ.める), 初め (はじ.め), 初めて (はじ.めて), 初 (はつ)
433	linen	Bố (Vải, những đồ dệt bằng gai bằng sợi bông gọi là bố)	布	linen, by one’s side, towel	5	18	The maid, towels by her side, distributes the linen.		A matador(bull fighter) holding his red linen by his side.	"The first rule of the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe is ""DON´T PANIC!"" The second rule, of course, is to always have a towel by your side. Personally, I prefer the linen sort."	5	2	フ	ぬの	布 (ぬの)
434	sail	Phàm (Buồm, một thứ căng bằng vải hay bằng chiếu dựng lên trên thuyền cho gió thổi thuyền đi.)	帆	sail, towel, mediocre, drop, wind	6	18	A sail made of a towel makes a mediocre vessel.		When stranded at sea, we needed a Sail. The best we had was a TOWEL, which was MEDICORE, only catching a DROP of WIND.	A towel makes a mediocre sail.	JH	1	ハン	ほ	帆 (ほ)
435	hanging scroll	Phúc (dùng để đo vải lụa)	幅	hanging scroll, towel, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains	12	18	A towel owned by the wealthiest tycoon in the world is made into a hanging scroll after his death and auctioned off to the highest bidder.		In the west, the rich use $100 bills to light their cigars... In Japan, after showering, when the wealthy don´t have any clean towels, they simply grab a hanging scroll off the wall and use it to dry off!	The towels of the wealthy: hanging scrolls.	JH	2	フク	はば	幅 (はば)
436	cap	Mạo (Cái mũ, các thứ dùng để đội đầu đều gọi là mạo.)	帽	cap, towel, risk, sun, day, eye	12	18	Because of the risk involved (of getting the sun in one's eyes),one puts together a makeshift cap out of a dirty old towel.		If you wear a towel as a cap, you are at risk of being seized and searched in U.S. airports.	Originally the first cap was a turban which was a towel wrapped around the head to keep the sun out of the eyes.	JH	2	ボウ、モウ	ずきん、おお.う	
437	curtain	Mạc (Cái màn che ở trên gọi là mạc.)	幕	curtain, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, towel	13	18	A dirty towel draped over the entrance to the old graveyard is painted to look like the curtain of death that leads to the otherworld.		There is a graveyard outside my house that scares me, so I put a huge towel over the window to serve as a curtain so I can get a good nights sleep.	"When you´re dead in the graveyard, ""it´s curtains for you.""."	6	1	マク、バク	とばり	幕切れ (まくぎれ), 天幕 (てんまく), 暗幕 (あんまく)
438	canopy	Hoảng (Màn dũng.)	幌	canopy, towel, limpid, sun, day, ray, small, little, human legs	13	18	A large towel stretched overhead with only a few of the sun's rays breaking through represents a canopy over one's bed.		A canopy is a towel to block the suns rays.	From the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe: A towel is useful, among other things, as a canopy to keep out the sun´s rays from your face while napping.	Names		コウ	ほろ、とばり	
439	brocade	Cẩm (gấm)	錦	brocade, metal, gold, napkin, white, dove, towel	16	18	A strip of white towel and some scraps of metal have the makings of a primitive kind of brocade.		Brocade is the art of sewing gold on a white towel.	Never heard of this word before encountering it here. So it turns out that the fanciest brocade in the world is actually a towel used by a Turkish monarch. It´s embroidered with gold and cocaine. Yes, cocaine - what you thought it´d be something else? That is some true art right there. I think a great many people would want to own this towel.	JH	1	キン	にしき	錦 (にしき)
440	market	Thị (chợ, thị trường)	市	market, top hat, towel	5	18	Dressed in nothing but a bath towel and top hat, one sets off to the marketplace in search of a bargain or two.		My recurring nightmare: Walking through the market, and suddenly realizing that I´m wearing only a top hat...and a towel.	At the MARKET you find lots of nice TOP HATS and TOWELS.	2	3	シ	いち	市 (いち)
442	elder sister	TỶ,TỈ	姉	elder sister, woman, market, top hat, towel	8	18	Of all the women of the family, it is the elder sister who has the duty to go to market to do the shopping.		Unlike the younger sister (妹), who is not yet old enough to date... the elder sister is on the market!	She´s old enough to be allowed to go to the market.	2	4	シ	あね、はは	姉 (あね)
443	lungs	Phế (phổi)	肺	lungs, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, market, top hat, towel	9	18	One is surprised, strolling through the market, to find among the meats hung out for sale a slab marked: lungs.		LUNGS are a PART of the BODY that can be found at any meat MARKET or black MARKET.	"The PART OF THE BODY most important if you work at a MARKET is your LUNGS so that you can shout out at the top of your voice ""IRASSHAIMASEEE"" to attract customers."	6	1	ハイ		
444	sash	ĐỚI,ĐÁI	帯	sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel	10	18	The part of the apron where one finds the buckle (represented pictorially by the first 5 strokes) is on the sash.		"First, note that the top half of the kanji consists of one and mountain. Of course, the ""number 1"" mountain in Japan is Mt. Fuji. The bottom half, under Mt. Fuji, consists of crown and towel. Now for the story. Archaeologists digging under Mt. Fuji (Japan´s #1 mountain) in an ancient royal tomb (they know it´s royal because of the crown) discover what looks like a towel, but after they clean it up, they see it is actually a splendid royal sash for the king´s kimono."	"Beautiful ""Miss Housewife Japan"" is on posters everywhere, cooking right before Mt. Fuji (the number one mountain) while wearing nothing but her crown, and an apron tied with a sash. (hodgepodge of mspertus, zwarte_kat, et al, with a jot of hadaka apron to focus the image.)."	4	2	タイ	お.びる、おび	帯びる (お.びる), 帯 (おび)
445	stagnate	Trệ	滞	stagnate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel	13	18	"People that have been ""sashed"" to something (whether their mother's apron strings or a particular job) for too long become like water that has stopped moving: they start to stagnate."		History of the first karate blackbelts: In those days, it was often difficult to find fresh, clean water, so samurai usually had to wash their sashes in stagnant puddles. The longer one had been studying martial arts, the older the sash on one´s karate uniform and, therefore, the darker the color. So why weren´t their karate uniforms black too? Never seen a ninja????	A moat is a stagnate ring of water like an obi (sash) of water tied around the castle.	JH	1	タイ、テイ	とどこお.る	滞る (とどこお.る)
446	thorn	Thứ (gai nhọn)	刺	thorn, tree, wood, belt, sword, sabre, saber	8	18	Thorns grow on a bush here that has wrapped itself around a tree like a belt, cutting into the poor tree like little sabers.		A TREE with a BELT wrapped around the middle. If you tighten the BELT, hundreds of tiny SABERS pop out of the tree in all directions, looking like THORNS.	The BELT TREE has THORNS like SABERS.	JH	2	シ	さ.す、さ.さる、さ.し、さし、とげ	刺さる (さ.さる), 刺す (さ.す)
447	system	Chế (Phép chế, phép gì đã đặt nhất định rồi gọi là chế)	制	system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber	8	18	This kanji show a unique system for leading cows to the slaughterer's saber: one ties a belt about their waist and fixes that belt to an overhead cable, pulling the cow up into the air where it hangs suspended, helpless against the fate that awaits it.		The system for making leather belts involves slicing up a cow with a sword.	"Why all the gore and violence? How about a samurai cow? He doesn´t have to be a violent samurai, either. He only wears the sword because he´s part of the bushi SYSTEM. Actually, he studies ikebana, shodo, and zen. Imagine him sitting cross-legged in a Zen temple (a very Special Zen temple). The master asks him if a dog has buddha nature and, shifting the swords in his belt, he calmly replies, ""Moo!""."	5	3	セイ		
448	made in...	Chế	製	made in…, system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber, hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	14	18	A label indicating that a garment was made in U.S.A. or Taiwan or Japan is itself a symbol for the systematization of the garment industry.		Made in china - a system of exploitation . making garments for nothing.	A SYSTEMATICALLY made GARMENT will no doubt have MADE IN on the label.	5	1	セイ		
449	revolve	CHUYỂN	転	revolve, car, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	11	18	As the wheels of the car revolve, they kick up small rising clouds of dust and debris behind them.		The REVOLVING wheels of the car (with REVOLVER blaring on the stereo) kicked up RISING CLOUDS of dust.	Just a note to remember the cloud primative: The name of Goku´s pet cloud that he used to help him rise (fly) in the Dragonball anime series (and also the scientific name for a certain type of cloud) is Nimbus [ http://www.rpgclassics.com/shrines/gba/dbztlog/screen2.jpg ]. The katakana-ization of this is {ニム}バス, so the rising cloud primative is just an abbreviation of that name written from top to bottom in the old Japanese style.	3	4	テン	ころ.がる、ころ.げる、ころ.がす、ころ.ぶ、まろ.ぶ、うたた、うつ.る、くる.めく	転がす (ころ.がす), 転がる (ころ.がる), 転げる (ころ.げる), 転ぶ (ころ.ぶ)
450	technique	Nghệ	芸	technique, flowers, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	7	18	The secret technique of making a rising cloud of smoke turn into a bouquet of flowers is shown here.		"Imagine an old Kung-fu movie: ""Try my rising cloud flower technique!!!"" smash pow crack!! ."	One technique to smoke weed is to vaporize it and inhale those rising clouds to create a stronger effect.	4	2	ゲイ、ウン	う.える、のり、わざ	
451	rain	Vũ	雨	rain, rain, weather	8	18	This kanji, also a primitive, is one of the clearest instances we have of a complex pictograph. The top line is the sky, the next 3 strokes a pair of clouds, and the final 4 dots the rain collected there and waiting to fall.	* As a primitive it can mean either rain or weather in general. Because it takes so much space, it usually has to be contracted into a crown by shortening the second and third strokes into a crown.	From the ceiling hangs a towel dripping four drops like RAIN.	Towel hung out on a line to ....oops, it´s rain.	1	5	ウ	あめ、あま-、-さめ	雨 (あま), 雨 (あめ)
452	cloud	Vân (mây)	雲	cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	12	18	Here is the full character for cloud from which the primitive for a rising cloud derives. Clouds begin with vapors rising up in small clouds from the surface of the earth, and then gathering to make clouds that eventually dump their rain back on the earth.		Every rising cloud is a potential rain cloud. (Thanks astridtops).	Every cloud is a potential rain cloud.	2	2	ウン	くも、-ぐも	雲 (くも)
453	cloudy weather	Đàm (mây bủa)	曇	cloudy weather, sun, day, cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	16	18	We refer to days when the sun is covered by the clouds as cloudy weather.		Cloudy weather is when a cloud blocks the sun (up above).	In cloudy weather, the sun is still there even if obscured by the clouds...　RTK2:　ドン　曇天　どんてん(cloudy skies).	JH	2	ドン	くも.る	曇る (くも.る)
454	thunder	Lôi	雷	thunder, rain, weather, rice field, brains	13	18	The full rumble and roar and terror of thunder is best felt not with your head tucked under your pillow safe in bed, but out in an open rice field where you can get the real feel of the weather.		If it´s raining and you´re standing in the middle of a rice field, you´re sure to soon become acquainted with the thunder up close and personal.	Thunder is a sure sign of rain coming. When you hear the thunder, you´ve got time to get out of the field before it starts raining.	JH	1	ライ	かみなり	雷 (かみなり)
455	frost	Sương	霜	frost, rain, weather, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye	17	18	Think of frost as a cooperative venture, an inter-action of the malevolent forces of weather that sit around a conference table and finally decide to allow a very light amount of moisture to fall just before a short and sudden freeze.		FROST is kind of an inter-weather, phenomenon, something between rain, snow and freezing temp’s.	The freezing RAIN formed FROST on the TREE right before your EYES. If you want, frost-y then think Frost Tree to get to the mnemonic. SECOND STORY: FROSTY the snowman? It´s RAIN that FROSTS that can then INTER-act with the kids, till he melts of course.	JH	1	ソウ	しも	霜 (しも)
456	winter	Đông	冬	winter, walking legs, ice	5	18	Walking legs slipping on the ice are a sure sign of winter.		Don´t slip off your legs in winter, strap two skis to your feet.	In winter my walking legs feel like blocks of ice.	2	4	トウ	ふゆ	冬 (ふゆ)
457	heavens	Thiên (Nhà tôn giáo gọi chỗ các thần linh ở là thiên)	天	heavens, heavens, one, ceiling, large	4	18	This character is meant to be a pictograph of a great man, said to represent the Lord of the Heavens. (You may, of course, use the elements ceiling and St. Bernard instead.)	* The primitive can mean either the heaven of eternal bliss or the general term for sky, the heavens. Pay special attention to the fact that in its primitive form the first stroke is written right to left, rather like the first stroke of thousand (Frame 40), rather than left to right. From the next character, we shall give it the primitive meaning of a witch.	If you think of the sky as a ceiling above our heads, here you have the heavens as the largest ceiling you could ever imagine. As Heisig pointed out, nothing comes above the ceiling primitive thus the order of primitives is taken care of.	The ceiling that all large dogs aspire to go to is known as heaven. After all, All Dogs Go to Heaven.	1	5	テン	あまつ、あめ、あま-	天 (あめ)
460	bridge	Kiều (cái cầu)	橋	bridge, tree, wood, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2	16	18	"The bridge shown here is made of trees in their natural form, except that the trunks have been carved into the forms of angels, a sort of ""Ponte degli Angeli."""		The nicest bridge is not in Hollywood or Los Angeles, but in San Francisco.	"A small 5 year old child has lost her mother in a tragic death. Her family tells her, ""Don´t worry, your mom is an angel now, in heaven, watching over you."" The small girl takes this very literally and is found one day, gathering pieces of wood. Her dad asks her, ""What are you doing with that wood?"" ""I´m trying to build a bridge to heaven to visit the angels.""."	3	2	キョウ	はし	橋 (はし)
461	attractive	Kiều (Có ý mềm mại đáng yêu)	嬌	attractive, woman, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2	15	18	Associating a particularly attractive woman you know with an angel should be no problem.		The most attractive woman in the world is obviously Angelina Jolie.	The most attractive of women are said to resemble angels. Similarly, angelic women tend to be attractive.			キョウ	なまめか.しい	
462	stand up	Lập (Gây dựng)	立	stand up, vase, stand up	5	18	This picture of a vase standing up has its meaning extended to represent the general posture of anything standing up.	* Used as a primitive, it can also mean vase. Using its kanji meaning, think of something standing up that is normally lying down, or something standing up in an unusual way.	A vase that can´t stand up won´t be a vase for long.	He was a stand up guy: he´d lend you the top hat he wears everyday if you asked, and he will turn everything upside down to help you find your tools.	1	4	リツ、リュウ、リットル	た.つ、-た.つ、た.ち-、た.てる、-た.てる、た.て-、たて-、-た.て、-だ.て、-だ.てる	立案 (りつあん), 起立 (きりつ), 独立 (どくりつ), 立つ (た.つ), 立てる (た.てる)
463	cry	Khấp (khóc, khóc không ra tiếng)	泣	cry, water, water droplets, water pistol, vase, stand up	8	18	One cries and cries until one is standing up knee-deep in water (or until one has a vase-full of water).		Guys have two ways of watering when they are standing, the less common one is crying.	She stood up to leave the room when her eyes started to water...	4	1	キュウ	な.く	泣く (な.く)
464	badge	Chương (Phân minh, đời xưa chế ra quần áo để phân biệt kẻ sang người hèn gọi là chương. Như bây giở gọi những mền-đay (médailles) là huân chương)	章	badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle	11	18	Try to imagine a club badge pinned to your lapel in the form of a mammoth sunflower protruding from a wee little vase.		In the military, badges are given out early in the day, with everyone standing at attention.	"Ash Ketchum stood up early in the morning, and said, ""Pikachu, let´s go get us another badge!""."	3	2	ショウ		
465	vie	Cạnh (ganh)	競	vie, vase, stand up, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, vase2, stand up2, elder brother2, teenager2, mouth2, human legs2	20	18	Two teenagers are seen here standing up to one another, vying for the attention of their peers.		TWO twin BROTHERS are competing (VYING) for the title of who is the older BROTHER. The game is that they must balance a VASE on their head and the one who drops his looses and becomes the younger BROTHER!	Two crazy brothers vying for the guiness records books of stupidity by trying to stand on their heads the longest.	4	2	キョウ、ケイ	きそ.う、せ.る	競争 (きょうそう), 競技 (きょうぎ), 競泳 (きょうえい), 競う (きそ.う), 競る (せ.る)
466	sovereign	Đế (vua)	帝	sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel	9	18	An uncommon, but not altogether unlikely picture of a reigning sovereign has him standing up in his apron, presumably at the behest of HIS sovereign (she who is to be obeyed), who needs help with washing the dishes.		The crazy sovereign stands up from his throne, wearing nothing but a crown and a towel. That´s why they try to keep him locked up in the castle away from the public.	"This one is so tricky for me. The key is to remember that the bottom stroke on the standing element takes those little crown ""winglets"" on the right and left. The most effective image might be of QEII (who is quite short) using her crown as a kind of stool. She´s standing on her crown rummaging through a high cupboard looking for her apron. I guess the sovereign´s servants have the day off."	JH	1	テイ	みかど	
468	juvenile	Đồng (trẻ thơ)	童	juvenile, vase, stand up, computer	12	18	This frame shows up the image of a juvenile hacker standing on top of a computer, or rather jumping up and down on it, because it refused to come up with the right answer.		The juvenile stood on top of his computer and broke it. Noob.	The movie Zoolander is a little JUVENILE and silly, but I love it nonetheless. Just remember Owen Wilson standing on the desk, hitting the computer like a monkey. (The files are IN the computer - IN the computer...).	3	2	ドウ	わらべ	童 (わらべ)
469	pupil	Đồng (Lòng tử, con ngươi.)	瞳	pupil, eye, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer	17	18	"Begin with the double meaning of the key word pupil: ""student"" and the ""the apple of one's eye."" Now all you have to do is dwell on the phrase ""juvenile of one's eye"" (the meaning here) until it provides you with an image."		In Japanese comics, the eye´s of juvenilles all have enormouse pupils.	WARNING: This kanji only means the pupil of the eye. It can be confusing to use a story that has pupil meaning student in it.	JH	1	ドウ、トウ	ひとみ	瞳 (ひとみ)
470	bell	Chung (cái chuông)	鐘	bell, metal, gold, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer	20	18	"This bell is made of cheap metal, and so badly made that when you ring it, it lets out a noise like the ""bellowing"" of juveniles who aren't getting their own way."		The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to class.	The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to COMPUTER class.	JH	1	ショウ	かね	鐘 (かね)
471	make a deal	Thương	商	make a deal, vase, stand up, alien, hood, human legs, mouth	11	18	See the peddlar standing atop his motorcycle helmet as if it were a soapbox, hawking his wares to passersby. The legs and mouth represent the tools of the trade of making a deal any way you can.		I use what I think is the real etymology for this kanji which is so shocking it sticks. The STANDING member at the top is a certain part of the body that all men have and it is approaching the HOLE between TWO LEGS (the HOOD) with extra marks to show they are FLESHY - ie a womans legs. So this shows the oldest DEAL of all time - prostitution.	"Slick Willy standing on the motorcycle helmet he´s trying to sell you to demonstrate how rugged it is. His legs crash through the top of it and after a moment of awkward silence his mouth opens and says, ""hey, we can still make a deal.""."	3	3	ショウ	あきな.う	商う (あきな.う)
472	legitimate wife	Đích (vợ cả)	嫡	legitimate wife, woman, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	14	18	"The phrase legitimate wife would have no meaning if there were not such things as ""illegitimate wives,"" taken because one's legal woman has turned into an antique. The very offense of the idea should help you remember the kanji."		Legitmate wifes tend to be women who are antiques in contrast to the young bit of illigitmate fluff on the side.	Your legitimate wife is like an antique bong. Its not your favorite but you still hit it sometimes...	JH	1	チャク、テキ		
473	suitable	Thích	適	suitable, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, road	14	18	Can you imagine anything less suitable to do with one's precious antiques than to display them in the middle of a crowded road-way?		"Think of the term from televison ""suitable for all audiences"" to get the sense of the word. What program could be more suitable for the whole family than the ""antiques road(show)""."	That old thing in your attic might be suitable to be shown on the Antiques Roadshow.	5	3	テキ	かな.う	
474	drip	Tích	滴	drip, water, water droplets, water pistol, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	14	18	Picture water dripping on what you thought were precious antiques, only to find that the artificial aging painted on them is running!		DRIPS of WATER were collected in ANTIQUE VASES since the museum had a leaky roof.	You must never let water drip onto antiques.	JH	2	テキ	しずく、したた.る	滴 (しずく), 滴る (したた.る)
475	enemy	Địch	敵	enemy, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster	15	18	Picture your most precious antique (it doesn't matter how old it really is, so long as it is the oldest thing YOU own) being knocked over by your most unlikeable taskmaster, and you have a good picture of how people make themselves enemies for life.		The taskmaster became my enemy for life when he smashed the antique vase holding my wife´s ashes.	Indiana Jones is an enemy of taskmasters in search of antique artifacts. RTK2: 　テキ　敵地　てきち(enemy territory)...　　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　嫡440　適441　滴442 　摘657.	5	1	テキ	かたき、あだ、かな.う	敵 (かたき)
476	spoon	Chuỷ	匕	spoon, sitting on the ground	2	18	This character, a pictograph of a spoon, is easy enough to remember, provided you keep it distinct from that for seven, where the first stroke is written left to right (the opposite of here) and cuts noticeably across the second.	* As a primitive, this kanji can take on the additional meaning of someone sitting on the ground, of which it can also be considered a pictograph. In general, the second stroke does not cut through the first - or if it does in some fonts, only slightly.	To remember the primitive meaning, picture someone sitting on the ground performing Seppuku...with a spoon. http://tinyurl.com/co48k.	Not only is stroke order important, but also be sure to note the direction of a stroke. In both ´spoon´ and ´seven´, the first stroke is the horizontal one - but here it is written right to left in a downward flick, while in ´seven´ it is a strong line from left to right.			ヒ	さじ、さじのひ	
480	north	Bắc	北	north, spoon, sitting on the ground	5	18	The cold air from the north is so strong that we see two people sitting on the ground back to back, their arms interlocked so they don't blow away. (Pay special attention to the drawing of the first 3 strokes.)		Warning: The left part is NOT the primitive turtle! The stroke order is different. Sometimes it will look exactly the same but not always depending on the font / style used to draw this character. Be sure to study the difference!	In the north, the weather is so cold that people are often seen sitting back to back to preserve warmth.	2	5	ホク	きた	北 (きた)
481	stature	Bối (vai)	背	stature, north, spoon, sitting on the ground, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	9	18	"One's stature is measured according to the ""northern-most"" part of the body."		While japanese people are generally small, people in the northern contryes have taller stature because of all the flesh they eat!	Up in the Great White North, we eat a lot of meat - thus giving us great STATURE. Mmmm.... baby seals.	6	3	ハイ	せ、せい、そむ.く、そむ.ける	背 (せ), 背 (せい), 背く (そむ.く), 背ける (そむ.ける)
482	compare	Bỉ	比	compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	4	18	With two spoons, one in each hand, you are comparing your mother's cooking with your mother-in-law's.		A gay couple about to turn around to compare which role is better...	Compare the two spoons... the one on the left is funny-looking.	5	2	ヒ	くら.べる	比べる (くら.べる)
483	descendants	Côn	昆	descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	8	18	"By comparing apes with anthropoids, we not only discover the latter have descended from those progenitors educated in the higher branches, but that the very idea of seeing everything descended from everything else, one way or another, means that there is ""nothing new UNDER the sun."""		Grandparent spends all DAY COMPARING photos of their DESCENDANTS.	Japanese people have compared themselves as being descendants of the sun. (Amaterasu, the sun godesss). Sun, comparing = descendants.	JH	1	コン		
484	all	Giai (Đều, cùng, lời nói tóm cả mọi cái mọi sự.)	皆	all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	9	18	"Think of the housewives in TV commercials ""comparing the whiteness"" of their laundry across the fence, a typical advertisement for the popular detergent known as All. (If you don't know the brand, surely you've heard the phrases ""all-purpose detergent"" or ""all-temperature detergent."")"		If you compare colors, you will find that white is produced from the mix of all the others.	Sometimes, Dr. Heisig´s keyword choices are really quite bizarre. This doesn´t mean all, it means everyone!! Picture two ku klux klansmen comparing whose skin is whiter...finally, they agree that everyone there is white.	JH	3	カイ	みな、みんな	皆 (みな)
487	mix	Hỗn	混	mix, water, water droplets, water pistol, descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	11	18	Mixed marriages, this character suggests, water down the quality of one's descendants - the oldest racial nonsense in the world!		People have to mix their fluids (have sex), in order to create descendants.	Give plants the right mix of water and sun. Then compare the results...　RTK2:　コン　混乱　こんらん(disorder).	5	2	コン	ま.じる、-ま.じり、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、こ.む	混ざる (ま.ざる), 混じる (ま.じる), 混ぜる (ま.ぜる)
488	thirst	KHÁT	渇	thirst, water, water droplets, water pistol, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	11	18	As you pass by the muchacho taking the siesta, he cries out that he is thirsty and asks for something to drink. So you turn the water hose on him.		You awaken from your siesta because you feel extremely thirsty so you go looking for some water.	The muchacho taking his SIESTA cries out that he is THIRSTY. So you pull out a bottle of WATER and pretend you´re going to give it to him...but then you dump it all on the ground before his eyes. HAHA, sucked in muchacho!!	JH	1	カツ	かわ.く	渇く (かわ.く)
489	audience	Yết (vào hầu chuyện, người hèn mọn muốn xin vào hầu bực tôn quý, để bẩm bạch sự gì gọi là yết)	謁	audience, say, words, keitai, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	15	18	Imagine an audience with the emperor or the pope in which all those in attendance are sitting down, leaning against the wall, sleeping like our muchacho on siesta as the honorable host delivers his speech.		The talk was so boring the audience took a siesta.	The man talking during his siesta (in his sleep) is saying strange things and drawing an audience.	JH	1	エツ		
490	brown	Sắc	褐	brown, cloak, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	13	18	The color of the serape or cloak of our muchacho on siesta is a dull brown, the color this kanji indicates.		Why is my package late? Imagine a UPS driver dressed in BROWN garments taking a siesta. What can BROWN do for you?	Mexicans use a cloak (pancho) for their siestas. Their color is usually brown.	JH	1	カツ		
491	hoarse	Ới (Một âm là ới. Tiếng thâm u mà không rõ.)	喝	hoarse, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	11	18	When the muchacho on siesta looks up at you and opens his mouth to talk, his voice is so hoarse that you cannot understand him.		If you have a siesta with your mouthopen, you will wake up with a hoarse voice.	After taking a siesta, you find that your mouth is hoarse (after all you ARE thirsty remember).	JH	1	カツ		
493	delicious	Chỉ (chỉ thị, ngon)	旨	delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day	6	18	Something is so downright delicious that one spends the entire day with a spoon in hand gobbling it up.		Use a spoon to eat a DELICIOUS hot fudge sundae. Duh..	It´s sooo delicious I could spoon it in all day.	JH	1	シ	むね、うま.い	旨 (むね)
494	fat	Chi (Mỡ tảng, mỡ dót lại từng mảng.)	脂	fat, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, delicious, spoon, sun, day	10	18	This kanji tells us that if you feed the flesh with too many delicious things, it soon picks up a thick layer of fat.		Every chef will tell you, fat is what make the meat taste delicious.	Fat is the most delicious part of the flesh. (Note this refers to physical fat, not the concept of obesity obese (#494)).	JH	2	シ	あぶら	脂 (あぶら)
496	I (one)	NHẤT	壱	1 (one), samurai, crown, spoon, sitting on the ground	7	18	"The Roman numeral I - like that for II we met earlier in frame 379 - is only rarely used now. In the midst of all the samurai, we notice one in particular sitting on the ground with a crown on his head, indicating that he is ""number I"" in the current rankings."		I am ´the one´ , says the samurai with the crown around his waist and a spoon up his a***.	The samurai who has been crowned number one is so good he uses a spoon to fight with rather than a sword.	JH	1	イチ、イツ	ひとつ	
497	every	MỖI	毎	every, reclining, lying down, mother	6	18	"""Behind every successful person lies a woman...,"" who usually turns out to be one's mama!"		Freud believed every man wants to lie down with his mother.	Who does every person want to lie down with? Yo´ MAMA!	2	5	マイ	ごと、-ごと.に	
498	cleverness	Mẫn (nhẹn, sáng suốt)	敏	cleverness, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts, taskmaster	10	18	Behind every successful taskmaster, the cleverness of a fox to outwit his charges.		Every master(or taskmaster) must have some degree of cleverness.	Cleverness is something every taskmaster must have. Every taskmaster has cleverness.	JH	1	ビン	さとい	
499	plum	MAI (quả mận)	梅	plum, tree, wood, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts	10	18	Behind every Jack Horner's pie maker, a tree full of plums.		Plums actually grow on every single tree. What, you didn´t know that? They do. Orange trees, apple trees, cantaloupe trees. Plums are simply mutant fruits that have been installed in the root software of every single tree. I hear that some plum-loving scientists are working on a way to hack every tree´s genetic code so that every tree will bear nothing _but_ plums.	EVERY Japanese person asks you if you like UMEBOSHI. No I say, I prefer to eat my PLUMS fresh from the TREE.	4	1	バイ	うめ	梅 (うめ)
500	sea	HẢI	海	sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts	9	18	Behind every drop of water, a sea from which it originated.		Every drop of water will eventually return to the sea.	As depicted in the classic SF film Fantastic Voyage, every drop of water is a sea, if you look close enough. Imagine peering through a microscope at a vast sea teeming with microbial life (and perhaps a minaturized submarine). Note: Take care not to confuse with ocean (#549).	2	4	カイ	うみ	海 (うみ)
501	beg	KHẤT	乞	beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook	3	18	See someone lying down in a public place with a hook in place of a hand, begging a morsel of rice or a few pence.		Lying down, Captain Hook is begging to be spared from the ticking crocodile.	Men beg lying down. Women beg as hookers.	JH		コツ、キツ、キ、キケ、コチ	こ.う	乞う (こ.う)
502	drought	CAN (khô)	乾	drought, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook, ten2, needle2	11	18	In times of drought anything at all will do. Here we see the victims begging for just a little mist for relief.		During a drought, everything begs for even a mist for relief.	Beggar has to drink mist because there is no water in the drought. I get this one confused with thirst 451 but try to remember that there is no water element beacuse it is a drought.	JH	2	カン、ケン	かわ.く、かわ.かす、ほ.す、ひ.る、いぬい	乾かす (かわ.かす), 乾く (かわ.く)
503	abdomen	PHÚC	腹	abdomen, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs	13	18	If you double back (fold over) most animals - or people, for that matter - in the middle, the part of the body where the crease comes is the abdomen.		The only body part that doubles over.	Imagine getting punched in the abdomen, a fairly tender part of flesh, and instead of doubling forward, you double back. That would be pretty painful.	6	3	フク	はら	腹 (はら)
504	duplicate	PHỨC	複	duplicate, cloak, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs	14	18	In its original and etymologically transparent sense, to duplicate something means to double it back with a fold, like the fold of a cloak.		My girlfiend saw someone wearing the exact same (duplicate) outfit at a party, so she doubled back to change!	"In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione uses a device called a ""time-turner"" to double back in time, but this creates duplicates. The smart thing to do would be to combine Hermione´s time-turner with Harry´s invisibility cloak. That way, one could double back in time without creating any visible duplicates."	5	2	フク		
505	lack	KHIẾM	欠	lack, yawn	4	18	The pictograph hidden in this character is of someone yawning. The first stroke shows the head thrown back; the second, the arm bent at the elbow as the hand reaches up to cover the mouth; and the last two, the legs. Since yawning shows a lack of something (psychologically, interest; physiologically, sleep), the connection is plain to see.	* As a primitive, it can mean either yawn or lack.	To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head.	When your body lacks oxygen you yawn.	4	3	ケツ、ケン	か.ける、か.く、あくび	欠く (か.く), 欠ける (か.ける)
506	blow	XUY (thổi)	吹	blow, mouth, lack, yawn	7	18	To blow is really no more than a deliberate effort to make one's mouth lack all the air that is in it.		This is clearly a BLOWJOB, we can see the MOUTH and the LACK OF condom. (I am sorry for the image, but it sticks forever in your mind).	I keep confusing this with suck (#689). Consider someone blowing bubbles using their chewing gum because they´re lacking attention in class.	JH	3	スイ	ふ.く	吹く (ふ.く)
507	cook	XUY	炊	cook, fire, lack, yawn	8	18	Better to picture what happens when you do not pay attention to your work in the kitchen. Here we see a blazing fire and an inattentive, yawning cook who let things get out of control.		Japanese cooking sometimes lacks fire, e.g., sashimi.	This character shows the difference between a cook and a chef: a chef prepares food with passion and love; a cook only stands there with a pan over a fire, with no passion and just yawning.	JH	1	スイ	た.く、-だ.き	炊く (た.く)
508	song	CA	歌	song, cancan, can, mouth, street, nail, spike, lack, yawn, can2, mouth2, street2, nail2, spike2	14	18	The song in this kanji is being sung by a chorus line of can-can girls. Why it should be eliciting nothing but yawning from the audience, I leave to you to decide.		Can-Can-ers lack the ability to sing a song, so they just dance.	Can-can dancers are supposed to be big-bosomed girls who dance. Yet these so called can-can dancers are flat-chested and singing a song, so audience of men is yawning in boredom.	2	4	カ	うた、うた.う	歌 (うた), 歌う (うた.う)
509	soft	NHUYỄN	軟	soft, car, lack, yawn	11	18	If the cushions of one's car are too soft, one may begin yawning at the wheel.		Cars are rough steel things, lacking softness.	If your car has really soft seats, you may start yawning and eventually fall asleep at the wheel (imagine that this seat is a huge soft beanbag that nearly swallows the driver, and it will be easier to remember).	JH	2	ナン	やわ.らか、やわ.らかい	軟らか (やわ.らか), 軟らかい (やわ.らかい)
510	next	THỨ	次	next, ice, lack, yawn	6	18	"This key word connotes the ""next in line"" of a succession of people or things. Let there be a lack of ice on the hottest day of summer, and you stand impatiently in line waiting for the distributor to call out ""Next!"""	* As a primitive, this character can either retain its key word meaning of next or the related meaning of second.	Is this store lacking ice? Let´s try the next one, then.	"A rapper called ""Ice"" went for auditions but was told he lacked talent. Next..."	3	3	ジ、シ	つ.ぐ、つぎ	次回 (じかい), 次元 (じげん), 目次 (もくじ), 次ぐ (つ.ぐ), 次 (つぎ)
511	briar	TỲ (Cỏ tật lê, thứ cỏ có gai.)	茨	briar, flowers, next, ice, lack, yawn	9	18	"Earlier we made mention of the story of Briar Rose (or ""Sleeping Beauty,"" as we called her in frame 165) and drew attention to the briar hedge that grew up all about her castle. But in the second part of the story, these briars blossomed into flowers. Hence her name, Briar Rose. Be careful not to confuse this character with that for thorn (Frame 446)."		To prevent animals from eating the beautiful flowers in your garden, the best thing to do is to plant briar bushes immediately next to them.	The briar patch may look unremarkable now before it blooms, but there will be flowers next, and it will be beautiful.	JH		シ、ジ	いばら、かや、くさぶき	茨 (いばら)
512	assets	TƯ	資	assets, next, ice, lack, yawn, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	18	The first shells (money) you earn, you use to pay your debts. From then on, the next shells you accumulate become your assets.		Assets are the next best thing to money.	The first SHELLS you get you obviously spend, but the NEXT SHELLS are your ASSETS, you should bury them in a low safe place (placement!).	5	3	シ		
513	figure	TƯ (Dáng dấp thùy mị. Cho nên gọi dáng điệu con gái là tư sắc)	姿	figure, next, ice, lack, yawn, woman	9	18	This kanji depicts a woman's figure as a sort of second self.		The next woman always has a better figure! Thinking like that, you´ll end up alone in an old folks home longing for the good old days!	Whenever I am next to a woman, I can´t help but take notice of her figure.	6	1	シ	すがた	姿 (すがた)
514	consult with	TY (Mưu, hỏi.)	諮	consult with, say, words, keitai, mouth, next, ice, lack, yawn, mouth, mouth2	16	18	To seek the words of a second mouth is to consult with someone about something.		Having a word with the next mouth over, like a neighbor, is usually a good way to consult with somebody for cheap. Because, you know, actual consultants charge huge sums.	Consulting with is having words with the next mouth.	JH	1	シ	はか.る	諮る (はか.る)
515	compensation	Bồi	賠	compensation, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth	15	19	Picture a clam used as a muzzle to quiet the complaints of a fisherman's widow asking compensation for her husband lost at sea.		Compensation is money you give to someone to shut them up (i.e. muzzle their mouth).	Compensation is a kind of euphemism for hush money here. Money that muzzles.	JH	1	バイ		
516	cultivate	BỒI	培	cultivate, soil, dirt, ground, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth	11	19	The barrel hoops used by many Japanese farmers to stretch clear plastic over row of vegetables in a garden patch in the hopes of cultivating bigger and bigger vegetables is a way of muzzling the soil.		To cultivate the land is to tame it, control it. In short, you muzzle it´s unruly, chaotic nature.	The illegal immigrants cultivate the land but are socially and politically muzzled (wear muzzles while they work too).	JH	1	バイ	つちか.う	培う (つちか.う)
517	divide	PHẪU	剖	divide, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber	10	19	"To ""divide and conquer"" you use a saber and a muzzle."		When you DIVIDE someone, there is sure to be a lot of screaming. That´s why you should use a MUZZLE before using the SABER.	Divide and conquer - first you cut them up (saber) , then you shut them up (muzzle).	JH	1	ボウ		
518	sound	ÂM	音	sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging	9	19	The kanji for sound depicts something standing in the air over a tongue wagging in a mouth, much the same as a sound does for the briefest of moments before disappearing.	* The primitive from this kanji also means simply a sound.	If you were standing on the sun, believe me, you´d be making sound.	The tongue wagging in a mouth produces a very high-pitched sound, breaking a nearby vase.	1	4	オン、イン、ノン	おと、ね	音楽 (おんがく), 発音 (はつおん), 騒音 (そうおん), 音 (おと), 音 (ね)
519	darkness	ÁM	暗	darkness, sun, day, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, sun2, day2	13	19	"When ""darkness covered the earth"" at the beginning of time, there was neither sun nor sound."		Picture the sun exploding - there would be a gigantic noise and then...nothing. Everything would plunge into darkness.	"In places of complete darkness, such as caves where the sun can´t reach, creatures such as bats have learned to navigate by sound rather than sight. The poor guys must have to fly around screaming ""Marco!"" and ""Polo!"" all the time."	3	3	アン	くら.い、くら.む、くれ.る	暗い (くら.い)
520	rhyme	VẦN	韻	rhyme, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	19	19	"Poetry restricted to verses that rhyme often finds it has to abandon clarity of thought in order to make the rhyme of the words work. In this kanji's picture, one becomes a kind of ""sound-employee."""		What is a RHYME but some SOUND that EMPLOYEES say to get them through work.	"Dr Seuss´s employee finally rebels against him: ""I´m tired of odd sounds all the time, I will not, cannot, speak in RHYME!""."	JH	1	イン		
521	discriminating	THỨC (Biết, phân biệt, thấy mà nhận biết được.)	識	discriminating, say, words, keitai, mouth, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta	19	19	A person of discriminating intellect can tell the difference between mere kazoo-buzzing and words spoken wisely.		Words are difficult to discriminate/discern from sounds in the middle of a fiesta.	I have discriminating taste. I´d rather listen to the words of a lecture than attend a kazoo concert. (Picture some snobby guy in a tweed jacket turning up his nose at entering a loud raucous kazoo recital).	5	3	シキ	し.る、しる.す	
522	mirror	KÍNH	鏡	mirror, metal, gold, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs	19	19	After lakes but before glass, polished metal was used for mirrors. These metal mirrors are recalled in this character for a mirror.		Mirror should suggest vanity. Imagine a spoiled girl who gets her parents to buy her a Golden mirror so she can stand in front of it all day vainly admiring her lovely human legs.	metal + stand up + sun + legs remember the legend of Amaterasu who retired in a cave. the other Gods brought a MIRROR made of polished METAL at the entrance of the cave. Amaterasu who was STANDING UP saw her image of the SUN and began to dance with her LEGS.	4	1	キョウ、ケイ	かがみ	鏡 (かがみ)
523	boundary	CẢNH	境	boundary, soil, dirt, ground, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs	14	19	Imagine the boundary of a plot of land marked with gigantic mirrors enabling the landowner to keep trespassers in sight at all times.		In the dense cities of Japan even a small garden is a luxury. In this house, the owner has put mirrors on the boundary of his land so it feels much bigger.	This is an old trick to keep out migrants. You put a bunch of dirty mirrors on the boundary of your land and theirs. When they approach the boundary, what they see in the mirror is their own land and someone that looks like themselves, only dirtier, so they figure your country isn´t any better than their own and they head back home.	5	2	キョウ、ケイ	さかい	境界 (きょうかい), 境地 (きょうち), 逆境 (ぎゃっきょう), 境 (さかい)
524	deceased	VONG	亡	deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook	3	19	A top hat hanging on a hook in the front hall, right where the deceased left it the day he died, reminds us of him and his kanji.	* In addition to deceased, the primitive meaning of to perish will also be used for this character.	The top hat hanging on a hook belonged to the now deceased Charlie Chaplin.	The recently DECEASED are said to hang their hats on a hook by the door to the afterlife.	6	3	ボウ、モウ	な.い、な.き-、ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす	亡父 (ぼうふ), 亡命 (ぼうめい), 存亡 (そんぼう), 亡い (な.い)
525	blind	MANH	盲	blind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, eye	8	19	If one's eyes perish before death, one remains blind for the rest of life.		Deceased eyes! Easy ;).	A person with deceased eyes is blind.	JH	1	モウ	めくら	
526	delusion	VỌNG	妄	delusion, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, woman	6	19	"The ""ideal woman"" one daydreams about is no more than a delusion. Hence, perish the thought of her."		"I had a problem with remembering that ""deceased"" went over the ""woman"". So, here´s my story: The delusional woman was carrying her deceased husband on her back."	If you think you should perish for that woman, you have a major delusion.	JH	1	モウ、ボウ	みだ.りに	妄信 (もうしん), 妄想 (もうそう), 迷妄 (めいもう)
527	laid waste	Hoang (hoang dã, hoang dại)	荒	laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood	9	19	The flowers that perish in the flood are taken here as symbols of an area that has been laid waste.		After Godzilla laid waste to the city, the survivors put some flowers on the bodies of the deceased and floated their bodies down the stream.	"Laying waste is just a euphamism for flushing poop down the toilet. It smells nothing like flowers, more like deceased flowers, and it´s flushed down into a stream of sewage. Use ""waste"" to avoid destroy (#365) demolition (#400)."	JH	2	コウ	あら.い、あら-、あ.れる、あ.らす、-あ.らし、すさ.む	荒らす (あ.らす), 荒れる (あ.れる), 荒い (あら.い)
528	ambition	VỌNG	望	ambition, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, king, jewel, ball	11	19	"The story of ambition talks of a king walking under the perishing (or ""waning"") moon dreaming great dreams about his kingdom. (The roots of ambition are from the same word as ""ambulate,"" meaning to walk about.)"		You´re dead meat, buddy, my ambition is to be king.	The ambitions of kings often result in dead bodies.	4	3	ボウ、モウ	のぞ.む、もち	望郷 (ぼうきょう), 希望 (きぼう), 人望 (じんぼう), 望む (のぞ.む)
529	direction	PHƯƠNG	方	direction, compass, direction	4	19	Spinning a dagger about on its hilt on the top of a top hat - waiting to see in which direction it points when it comes to rest - one leaves to fate where one is going next. Take care in writing this character.	* As a primitive, this character will take the sense of a compass, the instrument used to determine direction.	Note: The primitives are top hat and bound up. Compare ten thousand (#64). Story: A rich man wearing a top hat and bound up from head to toe hobbles up to you and asks for directions to the nearest police station because he just escaped from his kidnappers.	I always keep my directions bound to the bottom of my top hat so I won´t lose them.	2	4	ホウ	かた、-かた、-がた	方 (かた)
530	disturb	PHƯƠNG, PHƯỚNG (Ngăn cản, trở ngại, rào cản)	妨	disturb, compass, direction, woman	7	19	Imagine a compass that is disturbed every time a woman passes by, sending the needle spinning madly round and round.		Capt. Jack Sparrow´s compass gets disturbed every time a beautiful woman walks by him (just picture Keira Knightley in her sexy asian outfit as Elizabeth and the image will be fixed forever).	One way to Disturb a woman is to give her directions while she is in the middle of driving -- she just can´t take that kind of stress.	JH	1	ボウ	さまた.げる	妨げる (さまた.げる)
531	boy	PHƯỜNG (tên gọi các ấp, các làng)	坊	boy, soil, dirt, ground, compass, direction	7	19	The character for a boy shows us a Boy Scout cleaning the dirt out of his compass - the more dirt, the better.		Little boys always head in the direction of mud and dirt.	Boys thoughts often head in dirty directions.	JH		ボウ、ボッ		坊主 (ぼうず), 朝寝坊 (あさねぼう), 赤ん坊 (あかんぼう)
532	perfumed	Phương (thơm)	芳	perfume, flowers, compass, direction	7	19	Here we see a special compass used to pick out those flowers most suited for making good perfumes.		She used a perfume so strong, that you can track her by following the direction of the smell of flowers.	People always seem to overdo it with their perfume. It seems that whenever I am at school, somebody walks by with their cheap flowery perfume. If I close my eyes, I can actually use that floweriness as a compass - it tells me which direction they´re in.	JH	1	ホウ	かんば.しい	芳しい (かんば.しい)
533	obese	PHƯƠNG (béo)	肪	obese, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, compass, direction	8	19	If you eat too much, you may need a compass to find your way around the obese mass of flesh that piles up in the midsection. Compare this with your stories for round (Frame 44) and fat (Frame 494), similar in meaning but distinct in imagery.		Flesh in all directions = obese.	Yo momma so obese, she changed the direction of the moon.	JH	1	ボウ		
534	call on	PHÓNG, PHỎNG (phóng sự, phỏng vấn)	訪	call on, say, words, keitai, mouth, compass, direction	11	19	When making a courtesy call on a dignitary, one has to gauge one's words with great care. Hence the need for a compass.		When you call on someone, you point your words in their direction.	When calling on a girl, you´d better what what sweet words will turn her fancy in your direction. (Image: last century teenagers on a frilly couch in the sitting room, she with her back to him, and he fumbling for the right words to turn her around).	6	3	ホウ	おとず.れる、たず.ねる、と.う	訪れる (おとず.れる), 訪ねる (たず.ねる)
535	set free	Phóng (giải phóng)	放	set free, compass, direction, taskmaster	8	19	The taskmaster sets an unruly servant free, giving him no more than a quick glance at the compass and a boot from behind.		Go in any direction away from your taskmaster when you are set free.	When slaves were set free from their masters, they set off in all directions… RTK2:　ホウ　放射　ほうしゃ(radiation)… Pure group: 倣979.	3	3	ホウ	はな.す、-っぱな.し、はな.つ、はな.れる、こ.く、ほう.る	放す (はな.す), 放つ (はな.つ), 放れる (はな.れる)
536	violent	Khích, kích	激	violent, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove, compass, direction, taskmaster	16	19	Some cosmic taskmaster hovering overhead whips up the waves to make them dash violently against the shore. In the white foam that covers the water we see a broken compass floating, all that remains of a shipwreck.		When the taskmaster found his favorite white compas damaged by water, he became the most violent taskmaster there ever was.	Overnight the slave got Violent and was Set Free. Overnight....Set Free.	6	1	ゲキ	はげ.しい	激しい (はげ.しい)
537	undress	Thoát (y)	脱	undress, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	11	19	To undress is to expose the flesh and tempt the devil in the eyes of one's onlookers. Ignore the moral if you want, but not the devil.		HORNY TEENAGERS love to UNDRESS FLESH.	Before you undress I should warn you -- the sight of flesh brings out the devil in me.	JH	1	ダツ	ぬ.ぐ、ぬ.げる	脱ぐ (ぬ.ぐ), 脱げる (ぬ.げる)
538	explanation	Thuyết (học thuyết, lý thuyết)	説	rumor, say, words, keitai, mouth, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	14	19	Not inappropriately, this character likens an explanation to the devil's own words.		The words of a horny teenager typically fall into one of two categories: either rumors or explanations.	The words of the devil incite rumours and false explanations.	4	3	セツ、ゼイ	と.く	説明 (せつめい), 小説 (しょうせつ), 演説 (えんぜつ), 説く (と.く)
539	pointed	Nhuệ, Duệ (nhọn, mũi nhọn: tinh nhuệ)	鋭	pointed, metal, gold, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	15	19	Metal that has been pointed (as an awl, a pick, a nail, or a knife) tends to serve the devil's purposes as well as civilization's: our tools are also our weapons.		Pointed is the metal devil´s pitchfork.	The Horny teenager who worked part time at a gold smelting plant always had uncontrollable errections that pointed out all the time, this is not a good thing to have when you work in a gold smelting plant, surely he will one day end up with a Goldmember!	JH	2	エイ	するど.い	鋭い (するど.い)
540	formerly	Tằng (từng trải)	曽	formerly, increase, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	11	19	"This primitive (named for its associations with the kanji of the following frame) is composed of a pair of horns growing out of a brain with a tongue wagging in the mouth beneath. Think of ""former"" in connection with administrators or heads of state who have just left office but continue to make a nuisance of themselves by advertising their opinions on public policy."	* The primitive meaning, increase, comes from the next frame. Always think of something multiplying wildly as you watch.	Tằng (từng trải) là một ngày bạn bị cắm sừng vào não	Formerly, horned animals were used to plough the ricefield, and it took all day. Nowadays it´s done by machine.	JH		ソウ、ソ、ゾウ	かつ、かつて、すなわち	
541	increase	Tăng (thêm, tăng tốc..)	増	increase, soil, dirt, ground, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	14	19	This kanji depicts an increase of soil, multiplying so fast that it literally buries everything in its path.		Để TĂNG phần kịch tính thì bạn hết tiền (cạp đất mà ăn) và còn bị TẰNG (cắm sừng) :)) Prices always INCREASE for LAND that was FORMERLY cheaper.	Farmers work the land so they can INCREASE their formerly puny crop supply.	5	3	ゾウ	ま.す、ま.し、ふ.える、ふ.やす	増える (ふ.える), 増やす (ふ.やす), 増す (ま.す)
542	presents	Tặng	贈	presents, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	18	19	"The presents offered here are money that increases each time you give it away. Do not confuse with the temporal word ""present"" (Frame 275)."		Presents represent money that was formerly yours.	Imagine if the number of presents you get increases with each birthday. So on your first birthday, you receive just one shell as a present, but the next year it increases to two shells as presents, and so on, increasing and increasing so by the time you´re elderly, the number of shells you´ll get as presents will have increased to an awful lot of presents. GOT IT YET? PRESENTS = SHELLS + INCREASE.	JH	2	ゾウ、ソウ	おく.る	贈与 (ぞうよ), 贈呈 (ぞうてい), 贈答 (ぞうとう), 贈る (おく.る)
543	east	Đông	東	east, sun, day, tree, wood	8	19	"As a ""Western"" language, English identifies the east with the rising sun. In more fanciful terms, we see the sun piercing through a tree as it rises in the east."	"* Both the direction east and the part of the world called ""the East"" are primitive meanings of this character."	Traditionally seen as a pictograph of the sun rising behind a tree.	The sun pierces through the trees as it rises in the east…　　　　　　RTK2:　トウ　東北　とうほく (the northeast)　東京　とうきょう(Tokyo)… MIXED GROUP　凍506　(ﾁﾝ):陳1301　(ﾚﾝ): 練1343　錬2030.	2	5	トウ	ひがし	東 (ひがし)
544	ridgepole	Đống (toà nhà, nóc mái nhà)	棟	ridgepole, tree, wood, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2	12	19	If the piece of wood in the roof known as the ridgepole points east, the sunrise will be visible from the front door.		Feng Shui states that the ridgepole of a house should be made of wood and face east.	Ok just a note to the ´ridgepole facing east story´ im making up a story to JUSTIFY why that is the case. Assuming that 99% of you guys use the age old story of a ´sun rising through a tree tells you were the east is´, back in those days when people used ridgepoles they wanted to align their houses in such a way that they face the rising sun, so they wake up with a bright day, and wake up early with the sun seeping through in a perpendicular manner( as the ridge pole faces the sun in the morning).	JH	1	トウ	むね、むな-	棟 (むね)
545	frozen	Đông (đông lạnh)	凍	frozen, ice, east, tree, wood, sun, day	10	19	"The whole secret to breaking the ice with the East is to peek behind those mysteriously ""frozen smiles."""		Eastern Siberia is often frozen by ice. According to wikipedia, Yakutia (in Eastern Siberia) holds the record as the coldest town on Earth. Check it out yourself...it made it stick for me!	The ice will stay frozen until the sun is visible through the trees.	JH	2	トウ	こお.る、こご.える、こご.る、い.てる、し.みる	凍る (こお.る), 凍える (こご.える)
546	pregnancy	Nhâm (mang thai)	妊	pregnancy, woman, porter, drop, samurai	7	19	A woman who is in her pregnancy is a bit like a porter, bearing her new companion wherever she goes.		A pregnant woman is a porter of her child.	The gentleman gave the woman a bit of sperm...BAM PREGNANCY!	JH	1	ニン、ジン	はら.む、みごも.る	
547	courts	Đình (pháp đình, triều đình)	廷	courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch	7	19	Those who rule the courts, the porters of justice and order, are often found to stretch the law to suit their own purposes. Recall the kanji for prolong from frame 419 and keep it distinct.		A porter has run away from his master. His punishment is to be stretched out on the rack. So say the courts in this barbaric time.	The gentleman stretched the truth a bit in court.	JH	1	テイ		
548	dye	Nhiễm (ô nhiễm, nhuộm)	染	dye, water, water droplets, water pistol, nine, baseball, tree, wood	9	20	Water . . . nine . . . tree. From those elements you must compose a plot for the key word, dye. Here, as elsewhere, any of the alternate meanings of the primitives may be used, provided they do not require a position other than that of the kanji in question.		To make this dye, I used water and the barks of nine different trees.	The baseball team hangs their freshly dyed dripping jerseys at the top of a tree to dry.	6	1	セン	そ.める、-ぞ.め、-ぞめ、そ.まる、し.みる、-じ.みる、し.み、-し.める	染み (し.み), 染みる (し.みる), 染まる (そ.まる), 染める (そ.める)
549	burn	Nhiên (nhiên liệu: đốt)	燃	burn, fire, sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, fire2	16	20	Hearth . . . sort of thing. Beware of letting the simple reading off of the primitive elements do your work for you. Unless you make a vivid image of something burning and relate it just as vividly to those primitive meanings, you can count on forgetting this character very quickly.		Any sort of thing can burn in the fire.	"Somebody from PETA is really angry that they sell dog meat in China, so they´ve gone to burn down the whole cart (my mnemonic for ""sort of thing"" was seeing strips of dog flesh roasting, and saying ""well, that´s just the sort of thing they do here in China)."	5	2	ネン	も.える、も.やす、も.す	燃える (も.える), 燃す (も.す), 燃やす (も.やす)
550	V.I.P.	Tân (khách, tiếp tân)	賓	V.I.P., house, one, ceiling, few, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	15	20	The V.I.P. indicated here is an important guest making a visit. The elements are: house . . . ceiling . . . few . . . shells.		This house is reserved to V.I.P. only. If you are not one of the few with enough money to call you that way, keep out!	The V.I.P. visits your house, but your ceiling is too low for his inflated head, which he bumps and hurts. You have to give him your few shells as compensation.	JH	1	ヒン		
551	year-end	Tuế (tuổi, năm)	歳	year end, stop, footprint, one, little, small, march	13	20	Stop . . . march . . . little. Be sure not to forget that final dot in the element for march.		Santa had to put his foot down to stop a march of little guys, namely elves. They were protesting the harsh treatment they get every year-end when Santa asks them to step up toy production for the holiday season.	At the year-end, everything seems to come to a stop. However, there´s still enough time for a little march to celebrate.	JH	3	サイ、セイ	とし、とせ、よわい	歳末 (さいまつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 二十歳 (はたち)
552	prefecture	Huyện	県	prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little	9	20	Above, an eye and a fishhook, and below the primitive for little. Although apparently the simplest of these first six kanji, when you begin to work on its plot and story you will soon find out that the number of strokes and visual complexity of a kanji does not make it easier or harder to remember. It is the primitives you have to work that are the critical factor, as in this case where the meaning of the key word is so seemingly distant from the elements. Remember, you can always break larger elements down (eye of a needle into eye and fishhook) if you think it helps.		In Japanese this is KEN, as in Barbie´s boyfriend. He has lovely blue eyes, a girlfriend who is as thin as a straightened out fish hook. But, down where it counts, he has very little to show...	After sticking a fishhook in your eye, the yakuza boss probably has little more to do to convince you to move to a different prefecture.	3	2	ケン	か.ける	
553	horse chestnut	Dẻ (một loại hạt dẻ)	栃	horse chestnut, tree, wood, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, one, bound up	9	20	A tree . . . cliff . . . ten thousand.		There are a bunch of HORSE CHESTNUT TREES on top of this CLIFF above the beach. Chestnuts keep rolling off the cliff and falling on people´s heads. So far TEN THOUSAND people have been killed by falling chestnuts, and the Japanese government still ain´t did shit about it.	There is a horse chestnut tree that has grown by a cliff for so long, it has deposited 10,000 horse chesnuts that lie at the bottom. Don´t worry over this one too much, you´ll spend so much time trying to figure out the right story for it, you probably won´t forget it.	JH			とち	栃 (とち)
554	ground	Địa (đất: thổ địa, địa đạo)	地	ground, soil, dirt, ground, scorpion	6	21	"Soil and a scorpion (an ""earth animal""). This is, of course, the full character from which the primitive for ground derives."		Picture the ground as an extent of soil where scorpions are buried like land mines. Imagine a sign post saying ´no trespassing, scorpion mines´ if that helps, and how it is dangerous to walk there.	The soil is littered with scorpions everywhere and no ones dares put their foot on the ground.	2	4	チ、ジ		地下 (ちか), 天地 (てんち), 境地 (きょうち)
555	pond	Trì (cái ao)	池	pond, water, water droplets, water pistol, scorpion	6	21	"Water . . . scorpion. It would be easy to slip into a ""lazy image"" in cases like this one, picturing, let us say, a scorpion near the water. But if you picture rather a scorpion letting its venom out drop by drop until it has made a whole pond of the stuff, the image is more likely to remain fixed."		Remember the story of the scorpion that begged the turtle for a ride across the pond? Halfway across the water, the scorpion stung the turtle on the neck and they both sank to the bottom.	Water scorpions loves to live in the pond.	2	2	チ	いけ	池 (いけ)
556	insect	Trùng (côn trùng)	虫	insect, in, stick, mouth	6	21	Work with the pictograph as you wish.	* As a primitive, this insect will refer to the whole insect kingdom; it can be further specified for each kanji that contains it.	I see the bottom of this kanji as an arm, and the top is an insect biting into the arm, sucking some blood.	Insect in one drop of amber. Think Jurassic Park.	1	2	チュウ、キ	むし	虫 (むし)
557	lightning bug	Huỳnh (đom đóm, huỳnh quang)	蛍	lightning-bug, schoolhouse, owl, crown, insect	11	21	Schoolhouse . . . insect.		Bugs have to go to school to learn how to become lightning bugs. Only the brightest bugs graduate to become lightning bugs.	Q: Who´s the smartest insect in school? A: The lightning-bug. Because he´s so bright! (Image: lightning bug in school with glasses, pocket protector, etc. Maybe even have some cool kids teasing him).	JH	1	ケイ	ほたる	蛍 (ほたる)
558	snake	Xà (con rắn)	蛇	snake, insect, wind chimes, house, spoon, sitting on the ground	11	21	Insect . . . house . . . spoon.		A snake eats insects and he does that outside, while we eat another snake in the house and preferably with a spoon.	Solid Snake crawled like a bug, infiltrated my house, and took out everyone with a spoon.	JH	1	ジャ、ダ、イ、ヤ	へび	蛇の目 (へびのめ), 蛇腹 (じゃばら), 大蛇 (おろち), 蛇 (へび)
559	rainbow	Hồng	虹	rainbow, insect, craft	9	21	Insect . . . craft.		Little is it known that a rainbow is actually created by insects of different colours flying in formation, a craft they have perfected to create the rainbows we see today.	Rainbow is of course created by billions of colored insects (what? you really thought it was an optical illusion?). However I had problems remembering that the insect primitive goes on the left. If you have similar difficulties, try this: rainbow is an Insect-Craft. Mnemonic: I.C. Rainbow (I see rainbow).	JH	1	コウ	にじ	虹 (にじ)
560	butterfly	Điệp (con bướm)	蝶	butterfly, insect, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood	15	21	Insect . . . generation . . . tree.		A butterfly is an insect that appears after spending a generation on a tree as a cocoon.	Butterflies are insects that like to eat just the flowers but leave the leaves behind. (helps me to think of the kanji for leaves, minus the flower bit).	Names	1	チョウ		
561	single	Độc (cô độc, đơn độc)	独	single, pack of wild dogs, insect	9	21	Think of this key word in connection with bachelorhood. The elements: wild dogs . . . insect.		The bachelor´s apartment looked like it had been attacked by a pack of wild dogs. There were even insects in the kitchen. No wonder he´s single!	A SINGLE guy is a WILD DOG who BUGS many women.	5	1	ドク、トク	ひと.り	独り (ひと.り)
562	silkworm	Tằm	蚕	silkworm, heavens, insect	10	21	Heavens . . . insect. Be sure to do something about the position of the two elements.		There are no insects in heaven - well, that is, except for silkworms. What, do you expect Jesus to import his fancy robes from China?	In China it was believed that the silkworms were insects sent from heaven because of the beautiful material they produced.	6	1	サン、テン	かいこ、こ	蚕 (かいこ)
563	wind	Phong (phong ba, phong cách, phong tục)	風	wind, gnats, drop, insect	9	21	Windy . . . drops of . . . insects. Hint: think of the last two primitives as representing a swarm of gnats, those tiny drops of pesky insects.		They say that when an INSECT flaps its wings even the single DROP of WIND that it creates is sometimes enough to create a hurricane on the other side of the Earth.	The WIND usually carries things around in it - drops of rain or snow, and lots of insects.	2	4	フウ、フ	かぜ、かざ-、-かぜ	風力 (ふうりょく), 風俗 (ふうぞく), 強風 (きょうふう), 風 (かぜ)
564	self	Kỷ (tự kỉ, vị kỉ (chỉ vì mình))	己	self, snake, self	3	21	The kanji carries the abstract sense of the self, the deep-down inner structure of the human person that mythology has often depicted as a snake - which is what the kanji shows pictographically. Be sure to keep it distinct from the similar keywords, oneself (frame 36) and I (frame 17).	* As a primitive element, this kanji can be used for the snake - of which it is a pictograph - or any of the various concrete symbolic meanings the snake has in myth and fable.	"This kanji looks like the ""s"" of ""self"", looking at its own reflection in a mirror (reversed sideways), as if pondering about his ""self""."	When Superman looks at himself in the mirror, this is what he sees on his chest.	6	1	コ、キ	おのれ、つちのと、な	自己 (じこ), 利己 (りこ), 己 (おのれ)
565	rouse	Khởi (khởi động, khởi nghĩa)	起	rouse, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, snake, self	10	21	Run . . . snake.		Be careful when you´re RUNNING through the jungle, because you might step on and ROUSE a sleeping SNAKE. Then you´ll have to RUN like hell before it bites you!	Nothing will rouse you quite as much as finding a snake in your bed. You will run away like you´ve never run before!	3	4	キ	お.きる、お.こる、お.こす、おこ.す、た.つ	起きる (お.きる), 起こす (お.こす), 起こる (お.こる)
566	queen	Phi (phi tần (vợ lẽ cùa vua))	妃	queen, woman, snake, self	6	21	Woman . . . snake.		Cleopatra.	Be careful you don´t pick up a drag queen at a club - they might look like women, but they have a snake down there!	JH	1	ヒ	きさき	
567	reformation	Cải (cải cách)	改	reformation, snake, self, taskmaster	7	21	Pluralizing the snake and focusing on a single taskmaster may help recommend the image of Ireland's most famous reformer, St. Patrick, who, legend has it, drove away the snakes from the land.		The taskmaster of Slytherin ( wizardry house symbolized by a snake ) plans a reformation of Hogwarts, disallowing the study of magic to all muggle-born. こわいですね！.	This is a Meiji reformation taskmaster, trying to force usage of the Roman alphabet in Japan in place of Kanji. He holds a snake in the shape of the letter S and tries to explain how much simpler this is (j/k).	4	2	カイ	あらた.める、あらた.まる	改まる (あらた.まる), 改める (あらた.める)
568	scribe	Kí (thư kí, kí sự, kí ức)	記	scribe, say, words, keitai, mouth, snake, self	10	21	Words . . . snake.		A scribe writes down the words spoken by a snake (i.e. a lawyer).	Snakes have no hands. So, when a snake needs to write down something, it has to call in a SCRIBE, who will write down all the sayings of the snake.	2	3	キ	しる.す	記す (しる.す)
569	wrap	Bao (bao bọc)	包	wrap, bound up, snake, self	5	21	Bind up . . . snake.	"* The primitive meaning of wrap should always be used with the snake in mind to avoid confusion with similar terms. Just let ""wrap"" mean ""with a snake coiled about it."""	The snake bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it.	Imagine Jessie sending in her Ekans (snake pokemon), and telling it to use bind attack to wrap up pikachu.	4	2	ホウ	つつ.む、くる.む	包む (つつ.む)
570	placenta	Bào (bào thai, đồng bào, tế bào)	胞	placenta, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wrap, bound up, snake, self	9	21	Part of the body . . . wrap.		Imagine a newborn baby, fresh out of the womb, being entirely wrapped by the long piece of flesh, called a placenta, that once fed him.	Placenta is flesh/part of the body wrapped around the foetus.	JH	1	ホウ		
571	cannon	Pháo	砲	cannon, stone, rock, wrap, bound up, snake, self	10	21	Stones . . . wrap.		Primitive cannons fired stones wrapped with poisonous snakes.	Cannon = stone projectile wrapped by a barrel.	JH	1	ホウ		
572	bubble	Phao (bọt nước)	泡	bubbles, water, water droplets, water pistol, wrap, bound up, snake, self	8	21	Water . . . wrap.		When water forms a bubble, it wraps a pocket of air.	To prevent people from popping bubble wrap for fun, the post office has started filling the bubbles with water.	JH	1	ホウ	あわ	泡 (あわ)
573	tortoise	Qui (con rùa)	亀	tortoise, bound up, eels, sun, day	11	21	"This is not a turtle (See frame 250) but a tortoise, however you wish to picture the difference. Let the ""bound up"" at the to prefer to the head, and the two suns, with a long tail running through it, to the shell."	* As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated to its bottom half, ⻲, and comes to mean eel. (If it is any help, this kanji in its full form can also be remembered through its abbreviation's primitive meaning.)	It seems bizarre, but tortoises are a genetic cross with the head of a fish and the tail of an eel. Where the shell comes from, no one knows.	A tortoise is prosperity bound up with a tail. They are very lucky creatures.	JH	1	キ、キュウ、キン	かめ	亀 (かめ)
574	electricity	Điện	電	electricity, rain, weather, eel, sun, day	13	21	Rain/weather . . . eel.		Think of a two natural sources of electricity: electrical storms (a form of weather) and electrical eels. 電話 でんわ phone, call.	This kanji was invented by the first Chinaman to discover electricity. He was so unfortunate, he stepped on an electric eel and got struck by lighting at the same time.	2	5	デン		
575	dragon	Long	竜	dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day	10	21	Vase . . . eel. In order not to confuse this kanji with the zodiacal sign of the dragon, which we will meet later (Frame 2164) and use as a primitive, you might think here of a paper parade dragon.		Have you ever seen an asian DRAGON? it looks like an eel, but can stand up because it has legs.	If the poor villagers don´t provide him with a vase full of eels each day, the dragon will lay waste to the village.	JH	1	リュウ、リョウ、ロウ	たつ、いせ	
576	waterfall	Lang (thác nước)	滝	waterfall, water, water droplets, water pistol, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day	13	21	Water . . . vase . . . eels. To avoid the confusion mentioned in the previous frame, the character learned there for dragon should not be used as a primitive.		The Water Dragon dwells in the waterfall.	Ever went under a waterfall, vase in hand, trying to catch eels from the water as it pours down?	JH	1	ロウ、ソウ	たき	滝 (たき)
577	pork	Đồn (con lợn)	豚	pork, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sow, pig	11	21	Flesh . . . sow.		Pork comes from the flesh of a sow.	"One possible pictograph for ""sow"" primitive: the top line is a feeding trough, the stroke touching it is the head, the long curved stroke is the body (with a little hook at the end for the curly tail), and the four remaining strokes are the sow´s legs."	JH	1	トン	ぶた	豚 (ぶた)
578	pursue	Trục (đuổi theo, tranh giành: trục lợi)	逐	pursue, sow, pig, road	10	21	Sows . . . road.		In association with consummate (#540), our sow is on the road pursuing a mate.	The pig is on the road in the pursue of the turtle who is trying to escape (#283). (See story on escape (#283) & consummate (#540)).	JH	1	チク		
579	consummate	Toại (toại nguyện, thoả thích)	遂	consummate, horns, sow, pig, road	12	21	The horns atop the sow suggest a boar at work in the background. Add the element for a road. Now create a story whose meaning is: consummate.		This is still Miss Piggy only she´s gotten horny (as she often does) and now she´s pursuing Kermit to help her consummate her desires.	In association with pursue (#539), our sow has tracked down a suitable mate, they´ve consummated their relationship, and now the little sow is all grown up into a boar with horns.	JH	1	スイ	と.げる、つい.に	遂げる (と.げる)
580	house	Gia (gia đình)	家	house, sow, pig	10	21	"This is the full character whose primitive form we learned already. To help a little, this kanji recalls the times when the ""domestic"" animals were, as the word itself suggests, really kept in the house. Hence: house . . . sow."		"Think of ""The Three Little Pigs"". There was a house made of straw, another made of sticks, and a third made of bricks, each occupied by a pig. So, naturally, housetop over pig means house, the central element of that story."	Man, ever hear of cleaning? This house is a pig sty.	2	4	カ、ケ	いえ、や、うち	家屋 (かおく), 家庭 (かてい), 作家 (さっか), 家 (いえ), 家 (や)
581	marry into	Giá (đi lấy chồng: xuất giá)	嫁	marry into, woman, house, sow, pig	13	21	The kanji in this frame demonstrates the traditional Japanese approach to marriage: it is the woman who leaves her family for another household, thus marrying into a man's family.		Since the Nihonjin man is hardly ever home, the woman feels more like she´s married into the house than into a relationship.	Traditionally, it was the women who would marry into the households of their husband´s families.	JH	1	カ	よめ、とつ.ぐ、い.く、ゆ.く	嫁ぐ (とつ.ぐ), 嫁 (よめ)
582	overpowering	Hào (sáng suốt, trí tuệ hơn trăm người, hào hiệp, ý khí phi thường: hào kiệt)	豪	overpowering, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, sow, pig	14	21	Tall . . . crowned . . . sow.		In Orwell´s ´Animal Farm´ the pigs overpowered every other animals. They crownded themselves as ruler of the farm and walked tall on their rear legs, a crime strictly forbidden in the animal republic.	Ganon, the tall crowned pig, has been overpowering ther land of Hyrule for decades.	JH	1	ゴウ	えら.い	
583	intestines	Trường, tràng	腸	intestines, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	13	21	Flesh . . . piggy bank.		Intestines are the part of the body that is taken out of piglets to make piggy banks. Just imagine factory workers scraping out the intestines of real piglets and packaging them up for little children.	Taking things too literally, you used a real piglet as a piggy bank. Now when you smash it open to get your coins out, you have to dig out your coins from its intestines. ew.	4	1	チョウ	はらわた	
584	location	Trường (hội trường, quảng trường)	場	location, soil, dirt, ground, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	12	21	Soil . . . piggy bank.		You´re looking for a good location to bury your piggy bank savings. It has to be in some soft soil that´s easy to dig up, well hidden, and easy to remember like this kanji.	Don´t confuse with place (#1127). Think of location not as a single fixed spot, but as the act of locating. You´ve buried your piggy bank in the dirt in your backyard, but you can´t remember where. You frantically dig everywhere in a process of location to find your piggy bank.	2	4	ジョウ、チョウ	ば	場 (ば)
585	hot water	Thang (nước nóng)	湯	hot water, water, water droplets, water pistol, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	12	21	Water . . . piggy bank.		Imagine a hot water kettle for your tea, except this one is a pink piggy bank that pours the water from its snout (and squeals when the water is piping hot). Make sure to use a potholder!	"Hot water is a phrase that can mean ""getting into trouble."" This kanji pictures just one of the many meanings of that phrase: it´s water that you get into (with creditors and the like) when your piggy bank is empty!"	3	2	トウ	ゆ	湯 (ゆ)
586	sheep	Dương (con dê, con cừu)	羊	sheep, horns	6	21	This pictograph shows the animal horns at the top attached to the head (3rd stroke), the front and back legs (strokes 4 and 5) and body (final stroke).	"* The primitive meaning of sheep can add the further connotations given in the following frame. As we saw with the cow, the ""tail"" is cut off when it is set immediately over another element: ⺷. Note the change in stroke order, as exemplified in the following frame."	Picture of a sheep run over by a steam roller. Must have been a ram, note the horns.	Our Lord and King put on ears and a tail to become a lowly sheep for the slaughter.	3	1	ヨウ	ひつじ	羊 (ひつじ)
587	beauty	Mỹ	美	beauty, sheep, large, St. Bernard	9	21	Try to think of what the Chinese were on to when they associated the idea of beauty with a large sheep.		I guess this kanji proves it´s not just the Welsh whose idea of beauty is a large sheep.	A Sheep on top of a dog is NOT a beautiful thing.	3	3	ビ、ミ	うつく.しい	美しい (うつく.しい)
588	ocean	Dương (bể lớn)	洋	ocean, water, water droplets, water pistol, sheep	9	21	Water . . . sheep. Be sure to keep the stories and key word of this kanji distinct from those for sea. (Frame 500).		This kanji refers to the waters of the Pasheephic ocean.	Remember the story of Jason and the Argonauts from Greek myth? Jason travelled across oceans of water in order to recover the fleece of a certain sheep.	3	4	ヨウ		
589	detailed	Tường (chi tiết, rõ ràng)	詳	detailed, say, words, keitai, mouth, sheep	13	21	Words/speaking . . . sheep.		"Trembling from head to hoof from such a traumatic experience, the sheep gives a very detailed worded account to the detective about his wolf attack. ""We need more details Mr. Sheep. Tell us exactly where the baaad man touched you""."	Say! detailed sheep, not like that! DE-TAILED sheep. Got it?	JH	1	ショウ	くわ.しい、つまび.らか	詳しい (くわ.しい)
590	fresh	Tiên (sáng, tươi)	鮮	fresh, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, sheep	17	21	Fish . . . sheep.		"The freshest fish is caught in the middle of the night while most people are ""counting sheep."" (If you´ve ever been to Tsukiji fish market, you know what I mean)."	"This one´s easy to remember. The kanji gives 2 examples of foods that should be purchased fresh. To remember which foods, take the first letter of fresh, ""F"", to stand for fish and the final sound of fresh, ""SH"", to stand for sheep: FreSH. It even puts the primitives in the right order."	JH	1	セン	あざ.やか	鮮やか (あざ.やか)
591	accomplished	Đạt	達	accomplished, soil, dirt, ground, sheep, road	12	21	"The key word is meant to connote someone ""skilled"" at something. On the road we find soil OVER a sheep. You may have to work with this one a while longer."		Dolly (the first cloned sheep ever) grow tired of being a celebrity and escaped from the labs by digging a tunnel. She turned out to be an ACCOMPLISHED escapist, as she managed to dig a road under the soil. /Imagine Dolly performing a escape, like those movies where the main character has to escape from jail.	The dirty sheep had come far down this road and had accomplished many things.	4	3	タツ、ダ	-たち	
592	envious	Tiện (tham muốn)	羨	envious, sheep, water, water droplets, water pistol, lack, yawn	13	21	Sheep . . . water . . . yawn/lack. Although this character looks rather simple, special care should be taken in learning it because of the proximity of the final two elements to the character for next, which we learned in frame 510. Note, too, that the water comes UNDER the sheep, rather than on its own to the left.		A very thirsty sheep, who always lacked water, spends his days watching his fellow sheep (in the farm next door or in another pen) and being very envious of their water.	Envious of the greener grass on the other side of the fence, the sheep looks down in disgust at his own dry grass lacking water.	JH		セン、エン	うらや.む、あまり	羨ましい (うらや.ましい), 羨む (うらや.む)
593	distinction	Sai (sai khác, sai biệt)	差	distinction, wool, sheep, craft	10	21	Wool . . . craft.		This New-Zealand pro-gamer has won many distinctions playing WoolCraft (a massively multi-user game in which the goal is to shear sheep).	Noob players make no distinction between what games they play, whether it´s the geniune thing or a bootleg fake copy. The biggest example of course, would be the legit World of Warcraft and the biggest ripoff there is: World of Wool-craft!	4	3	サ	さ.す、さ.し	差す (さ.す)
594	don	Trước (mặc)	着	don, wool, sheep, eye	12	21	"I cannot resist doing this one for you, since it clearly describes donning (putting on) one's clothes as ""pulling the wool over one's eyes."""		A pullover is donned by pulling wool over your eyes.	Someone who is donning a disguise does that in order to pull the wool over your eyes.	3	4	チャク、ジャク	き.る、-ぎ、き.せる、-き.せ、つ.く、つ.ける	着用 (ちゃくよう), 着手 (ちゃくしゅ), 土着 (どちゃく), 着せる (き.せる), 着る (き.る), 着く (つ.く), 着ける (つ.ける)
595	solely	Duy (duy nhất, duy tâm)	唯	solely, mouth, turkey	11	21	Mouth . . . turkey.		"The mouth of a turkey is used solely for saying, ""Gobble."" Likewise, your mouth, full of turkey, is solely used to gobble it up."	Sadly my mouth gets to taste turkey solely on Christmas Day.	JH	1	ユイ、イ	ただ	唯一 (ゆいいつ), 唯物論 (ゆいぶつろん), 唯美主義 (ただびしゅぎ)
599	char	Tiêu (cháy)	焦	char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue	12	21	Turkey . . . oven fire.		When I put the turkey over the oven fire, it always ends up being charred beyond recognition. I´m not a very good cook.	Char could be any meat over oven fire. So why is it a turkey in this kanji? Because charred turkey is what sticks out most in your mind as the thing that ruined Thanksgiving dinner.	JH	1	ショウ	こ.げる、こ.がす、こ.がれる、あせ.る	焦る (あせ.る), 焦がす (こ.がす), 焦がれる (こ.がれる), 焦げる (こ.げる)
600	reef	Tiều (đá ngầm)	礁	reef, stone, rock, char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue	17	21	Rocks . . . char.		"Reefs are often formed from volcanic rock, or ""rock that has been charred""."	Coral reefs are now dying off due to our abuse of the environment and now look like charred stone. For a picture illustrating this, see http://www.nacri.org/images/Hof-dredgingfig8.jpg.	JH	1	ショウ		
601	gather	Tập (tập hợp)	集	gather, turkey, tree, wood	12	21	Turkeys . . . atop a tree.		Hunter-gathers, searching all along the ground for food. They never look up and see the Turkeys that have gathered on top of the trees to hide. Those were some smart turkeys!	Gather the turkeys for Thanksgiving. Gather the trees for Christmas. In that order...	3	4	シュウ	あつ.まる、あつ.める、つど.う	集まる (あつ.まる), 集める (あつ.める), 集う (つど.う)
602	quasi-	Chuẩn (tựa như, thứ nhì)	准	quasi-, ice, turkey	10	21	Ice . . . turkey.		Quasi-modo, the famous hunchback of Notre-Dame wasn´t actually a hunchback at all!! He used a frozen turkey to make a hunch!	An iced turkey is only quasi-as-good-as fresh turkey.	JH	1	ジュン		
603	advance	Tiến	進	advance, turkey, road	11	21	Turkey . . . road.		Why did the turkey cross the road? To advance to the other side, of course.	[re: raulir] Animals on the road: Turtles escape (#283) and Pigs pursue (#539), while the Turkeys advance (looking very formidable indeed).	3	3	シン	すす.む、すす.める	進む (すす.む), 進める (すす.める)
604	miscellaneous	Tạp	雑	miscellaneous, nine, baseball, tree, wood, turkey	14	21	Baseball . . . trees . . . turkey.		"Newscast: ""Among today´s miscellaneous stories, we have a report on a baseball team that was chased up a tree by a turkey. Stay tuned for this and more!""."	On the left we have baseball and wood, which obviously means a baseball bat. Instead of balls, there are miscellaneous other objects you may hit with it. While beating people may be one favorite use, in this case we see it used for making turkey mash.	5	3	ザツ、ゾウ	まじ.える、まじ.る	雑談 (ざつだん), 雑音 (ざつおん), 混雑 (こんざつ)
605	female	Thư (con cái)	雌	feminine, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, turkey	14	21	This character for female forms a pair with that for male, which we will learn later (Frame 804). The elements: footprint . . . spoon . . . turkey.		Stop | spooning | turkeys. Spoon females.	To become feminine you must stop using a spoon to eat turkey and use a knife and fork like a proper lady.	JH	1	シ	め-、めす、めん	雌 (め), 雌 (めす)
606	semi-	Chuẩn (tiêu chuẩn, chuẩn bị)	準	semi-, water, water droplets, water pistol, turkey, ten, needle	13	21	Think of this in terms of the semifinals of some sports competition. Water . . . turkeys . . . needle.		The anhinga, or water turkey, has a needle-like nose, so really it´s only a semi-turkey http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anhinga.	At the turkey fighting semi-final, turkeys are injected with drugs via needles and splashed with water to help them last the match.	5	2	ジュン	じゅん.じる、じゅん.ずる、なぞら.える、のり、ひと.しい、みずもり	
607	stirred up	Phấn	奮	stirred up, large, St. Bernard, turkey, rice field, brains	16	21	St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . rice field/brains.		The St. Bernard dog pounces on a turkey in a rice field and stirs up all the other birds around. See them all gobble gobbling in fear?	Gruesome, but it makes it easy to remember. Here goes: The St. Bernard stirred up a crowd of turkeys and caught one. It bit the head, brains spilling onto the rice field.	6	1	フン	ふる.う	奮う (ふる.う)
608	rob	Đoạt (chiếm đoạt)	奪	rob, large, St. Bernard, turkey, glue	14	21	Whereas burglary (Frame 381) implies clandestine appropriation of another's property, robbery refers to taking by force. The primitive elements: St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . glue.		Remember the scene in A Christmas Story where the big dogs robbed the family of their Christmas turkey? Well, the following year Ralphie´s mom glued the holiday bird to the kitchen table, just as a precaution.	Don´t let the neighbor´s St.Bernard rob tonight´s turkey....glue it to the table if you must.	JH	1	ダツ	うば.う	奪う (うば.う)
609	assurance	Xác (chính xác, xác lập)	確	assurance, stone, rock, turkeyhouse, house, turkey	15	21	"On the left you see the rock, which is familiar enough. But pay attention to the right. Taking careful note of the unusual stroke order that has the ""chimney"" on the house doubled up with the first stroke of the turkey, we may see the right side as a turkey house (or ""coop""). We shall see this pattern only on one other occasion (Frame 2093), but even for these two characters it is well worth the trouble to single it out as a primitive."		To assure that no one will get into the Turkey coop, put a huge rock in the entrance!	"You´ve heard the expression ""killing two birds with one stone."" (一石二鳥 is-seki-ni-chou). We´ll, there´s another one that roughly translates as ""killing an entire coop with a giant boulder. "" That´s the method that hunters use when they want absolute assurance of taking home a bird."	5	3	カク、コウ	たし.か、たし.かめる	確か (たし.か), 確かめる (たし.かめる)
610	noon	Ngọ (giữa chưa)	午	noon, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse	4	21	With a bit of stretching, you might see a horse's head pointing leftwards in this character. That gives the primary meaning of the Chinese zodiacal sign of the horse, which corresponds to the hour of noon. Note how this kanji primitive differs from that for cow (Frame 260).	* As a primitive, this character gets the meaning of a horse. Any horse image will do, except that of a team of horses, which will come later (Frame 2132) and get its own primitive.	Noon is a good time for a ten minute nap (using lie down as nap).	Noon is the hour of the horse.	2	5	ゴ	うま	
611	permit	Hứa (cho phép)	許	permit, say, words, keitai, mouth, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse	11	21	Words . . . horse.		If horses could speak, you might have to ask their permission before mounting them.	Mr Ed ( a famous talking horse ) was finally at a loss for words when told he would need a permit for public speaking.	5	3	キョ	ゆる.す、もと	許す (ゆる.す)
612	delight	Hoan (hoan nghênh)	歓	delight, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, lack, yawn	15	21	"Again I cannot resist sharing my own associations. If you've ever seen Disney's animated interpretation of classical music, ""Fantasia,"" you will recall what was done there with Beethoven's ""Pastoral Symphony"" (the 6th), and the flying horses that figured in it. The mares are bathing in the stream and the stallions begin to gather. As dusk sets in, the flying horses all start yawning and pair off for the night: a perfectly delightful portrait of delight."		Imagine a spoiled little girl. Her delight when she gets a Pegasus for her birthday... and then like all spoilt little girls she gets bored of it quickly... hence the yawn.	I would be delighted if Japanese lacked the Pegasus kanji.	JH	1	カン	よろこ.ぶ	
613	authority	Quyền (chính quyền)	権	authority, tree, wood, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey	15	21	Tree . . . Pegasus.		I have Eric Cartman of the “South Park” animated series, wearing a cop uniform, riding a wooden Pegasus (such as on a funfair), and yelling “RESPECT MY AUTHORITAH!!!”.	No one has the authority to tie up a pegasus to a tree!	6	3	ケン、ゴン	おもり、かり、はか.る	権利 (けんり), 権威 (けんい), 人権 (じんけん)
614	outlook	Quan (quan sát)	観	outlook, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, see, telescope, eye, human legs	18	21	Pegasus . . . see.		Microsoft Outlook works about as well as a pegasus that can´t see: they both crash all the time.	I used to hate birds.They´re loud, stupid and worst of all they shit on your head. Used to think birds were the most vile creatures on earth. Then I encountered a pegasus. I was just walking down the road, minding my own business when I happened to look up. I saw it there, braying noisily, ivory wings outstretched like an angel, back leg raised ever so slightly. It dropped a steaming brown load right on my face. It changed my outlook completely. Birds are the second most vile creatures on earth.	4	3	カン	み.る、しめ.す	
615	feathers	Vũ (lông vũ, lông chim)	羽	feathers, wings	6	21	From the pictograph of two bird-wings, we get feathers.	* The related image of wings can be added as a primitive meaning. It can also take the form ョョ when used as a primitive, as we shall see in frames 618 and 619.	Pictograph. Easy enough.	These days the biggest concern in airline safety is ICE on the WINGS of the plane. Birds that fly long distances also have to worry about getting ICE on their FEATHERS.	2	2	ウ	は、わ、はね	羽 (は), 羽 (はね)
616	learn	Tập	習	learn, feathers, wings, white, dove	11	21	Feathers . . . white bird.		Imagine a white bird loosing a couple feathers as it is learning to fly. You learn a lesson as you watch it doing so, maybe you learn that “nothing comes for free” or that “one has to be prepared to loose in order to gain”...	Learning is all about adding more feathers to your cap and the most prestigious of all is the beautiful pure white feather you´ll receive when you have learned the kanji!	3	4	シュウ、ジュ	なら.う、なら.い	習う (なら.う)
617	the following	Dực (tiếp sau)	翌	the following, feathers, wings, vase, stand up	11	21	Feathers . . . vase. Be sure to contrast the connotation of this keyword with that for next (Frame 510).		The following segment is sponsored by...Swiffer - who make excellent feather dusters for cleaning your vases.	"Your feathers would also stand up if you were a hen in a slaughter house and you heard: ""The following!""."	6	2	ヨク		
618	weekday	Diệu (ngày trong tuần)	曜	weekday, sun, day, futon, feathers, wings, turkey	18	21	Day . . . feathers . . . turkey.		"Tip: feathers + turkey : This combination of primitives appears six times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""futon"" (your futon is made from turkey feathers). REF: weekday (FRAME 576) , laundry (#577), leap (#1285), outstanding (#2272), twinkle (#2534), shimmering (#2880). Story: On weekdays you hang your futon out in the sun."	The poor farmer spends every weekday while the sun shines, plucking turkey feathers.	2	4	ヨウ		
619	laundry	Trạc (rửa, giặt)	濯	laundry, water, water droplets, water pistol, futon, feathers, wings, turkey	17	21	Water . . . feathers . . . turkey		At the laundry you stuff your large futon (made from turkey feathers) in the machine, thereby causing it to break -- as shown by the water spurting out the side.	When turkeys do the laundry, they put their feathers in water (they don´t have clothes).	JH	2	タク	すす.ぐ、ゆす.ぐ	
620	sayeth	Viết (nói, lý do, viện cớ)	曰	sayeth, pent in, one	4	22	Pent in . . . one. The key word refers to famous sayings of famous people, and is the origin for the primitive meaning of a tongue wagging in the mouth that we learned in frame 12. The size of this kanji, a relatively rare one, is what distinguishes it from day.		"Sayeth?! Who the hell says ""sayeth""? Doesn´t seem quite right...just like this kanji, which is just like ""day"" but doesn´t seem ""quite right.""."	When pent up alone, one sayeth little.			エツ	いわ.く、のたま.う、のたま.わく、ここに、ひらび	
621	quandary	Khốn	困	quandary, pent in, tree, wood	7	22	Pent in . . . trees.		I´m supposed to make an enclosure for my tree, but if I use its wood for the enclosure, there won´t be anything left to be pent-in. What a quandary!	You are pent in the garden of eden with one tree, but outside is the whole world to explore! What a quandary -- should you stay in paradise with the tree of knowledge or should you go out into the world?	6	3	コン	こま.る	困る (こま.る)
622	harden	Cố (cố thủ. cố chấp)	固	harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	8	22	Old . . . pent in. Leave the people out of your story to avoid complications later when we add the element for person to form a new kanji (Frame 1047).		Fossils are old things pent in that have hardened.	Remember Metapod from Pokemon? All it used was harden, which kept it pent in until it grew old enough to evolve into Butterfree..	4	2	コ	かた.める、かた.まる、かた.まり、かた.い	固い (かた.い), 固まる (かた.まる), 固める (かた.める)
624	country	Quốc	国	country, pent in, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop	8	22	Jewels . . . pent in.		In my country (England) the crown jewels are kept pent-in in the Tower of London. Which happens to be where enemies of the state were once also pent-in (probably for trying to steal those jewels).	Just think of Japan, a country which is like a jewel but historically very enclosed.	2	5	コク	くに	国 (くに)
625	group	Đoàn (đoàn kết, đoàn đội)	団	group, pent in, glue	6	22	Glued . . . pent in.		When you are admitted into a group like the Yakuza, you´re well and truly done (だん) for. You must stick to the group like glue, and you will be pent-in for life, never being able to leave.	"A pent-in group will naturally be more cohesive, or ""glued together.""."	5	2	ダン、トン	かたまり、まる.い	団結 (だんけつ), 団地 (だんち), 集団 (しゅうだん)
626	cause	Nhân	因	cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard	6	22	St. Bernard dog . . . pent in.		We once had a dog with big paws // and oh what great trouble he´d cause // we built a huge pen // to keep him pent in // and stop him from breaking more laws //.	Why is there poop on the kitchen floor? Oh, the cause is that you kept the dog pent in the house all day. Next time remember to walk him.	5	3	イン	よ.る、ちな.む	因る (よ.る)
627	matrimony	Nhân (hôn nhân)	姻	matrimony, woman, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard	9	22	"Woman . . . cause. Think here of the ""state of matrimony"" and you will not confuse it with other characters involving marriage, one of which we have already met (Frame 581)."		Matrimony is the state in which the woman has got you pent in like a dog so that you cannot go after other bitches.	When the woman gets angry, she treats her man like a pent in dog (i.e., puts him in the doghouse). It´s a perfect metaphor for the state of matrimony.	JH	1	イン		
629	park	Viên	園	park, pent in, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf	13	22	Pent in . . . lidded crock . . . scarf.		A nice picnic pent up in the park, with your crock pot and scarf (picnic blanket).	There was a homeless man living in a box at the park so I gave him a lidded crock filled with hot curry tied with a scarf...	2	3	エン	その	園 (その)
630	-times	Hồi (về, đi rồi trở lại)	回	times, pent in, mouth	6	22	"The suffix ""-times"" refers to a number of repetitions. Its elements: a mouth . . . pent in. Hint: you may find it more helpful to forget the primitives and think of one circle revovling inside of another."		Write mouth two -times.	Pretty much a pictograph, see book. Keyword meanings : to turn round, counter for number of times, counter for rounds. Some simple compounds using previously learned kanji : 次回 (next time), 毎回 (every time/each round), 回る (to wander around).	2	3	カイ、エ	まわ.る、-まわ.る、-まわ.り、まわ.す、-まわ.す、まわ.し-、-まわ.し、もとお.る、か.える	回答 (かいとう), 転回 (てんかい), 次回 (じかい), 回す (まわ.す), 回る (まわ.る)
631	podium	Đàn (diễn đàn)	壇	podium, soil, dirt, ground, Churchill, top hat, -times, pent in, mouth, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor	16	22	Soil/ground . . . top hat . . . -times . . . nightbreak. With kanji as difficult as this one, it generally pays to toy with the various connotations of its primitives before settling on one image. Aim for as much simplicity as you can.		A man on the podium announce the rules for the contest: You must fill a top hat with dirt as many times as you can by nightbreak.	Abraham Lincoln used a simple mound of soil for a podium, when he wore his top hat and gave the speech he had practiced many times until nightbreak. But it was so magnificent that no one noticed.	JH	1	ダン、タン		壇上 (だんじょう), 花壇 (かだん), 文壇 (ぶんだん)
632	store	Điếm (tiệm)	店	store, cave, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth	8	22	Cave . . . fortune-telling.		Try to remember all those stores from Zelda that were inside caves and had fortune-teller like vendors.	The fortuneteller has a store in a cave.	2	4	テン	みせ、たな	店 (みせ)
633	warehouse	Khố (cái kho)	庫	warehouse, cave, car	10	22	Cave . . . car.		I think of the Batcave. It´s a big cave that Batman uses as a warehouse to store his car, the Batmobile, and all his cool big-boy toys.	Have you ever worked in a warehouse? It´s like a giant metal cave. Watch out for that forklift!	3	2	コ、ク	くら	倉庫 (そうこ), 文庫 (ぶんこ), 車庫 (しゃこ)
634	courtyard	Đình (triều đình, sân trước)	庭	courtyard, cave, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch	10	22	Cave . . . courts.		When the courthouse caved in, trials had to be held in the courtyard.	Back in caveman days, courts were held in caves. When too many people showed up to watch, they spilled out into the courtyard (the yard outside the cave court ) . 庭 (にわ): garden, yard, compound 庭園 (ていえん): garden, park 校庭 (こうてい): schoolyard.	3	3	テイ	にわ	庭 (にわ)
635	government office	Sảnh	庁	government office, cave, street, nail, spike	5	22	Cave . . . a spike.		Some bureaucrats at a government office decided that the tunnels of caves need to get street signs, which are then nailed to the walls of the cave.	"In some of the scarier countries, when someone is invited to visit a ""government office"", it´s actually a dungeon where they´re dragged into a cave and nailed to the wall."	6	2	チョウ、テイ	やくしょ	
636	bed	Sàng (giường)	床	bed, cave, tree, wood	7	22	Cave . . . tree.		The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So these can be considered as beds.	(based on mspertus:) The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So to be on the safe side it is best to put a tree in a cave and use it as a bed.	JH	2	ショウ	とこ、ゆか	床 (とこ), 床 (ゆか)
637	hemp	Ma (cây tầm ma)	麻	hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2	11	22	Cave . . . grove. If it helps, this is the hemp marijuana comes from.		(Image: while Batman is out, Robin is smokin´ a huge doob in a secret corner of the Batcave where he nurtures his hemp grove).	Where is the best place to hid your grove of hemp trees? In a cave, you dope!	JH	1	マ、マア	あさ	麻 (あさ)
638	grind	Ma (mài, xát)	磨	grind, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, stone, rock, tree2, wood2	16	22	Hemp . . . stone.		If you grind the hemp you are bound to get stoned quicker.	You must GRIND the HEMP collected in the grove by your cave on solid STONE to make the best ropes.	JH	2	マ	みが.く、す.る	磨く (みが.く)
639	heart	Tâm	心	heart, drops, fishhook, heart	4	22	This character, a pictographic representation of the heart, is among the most widely used primitives we shall meet.	* As a primitive, it can take three forms, to which we shall assign three distinct meanings. In its kanji-form, it appears BENEATH or to the RIGHT of its relative primitive and means th physical organ of the heart. To the LEFT, it is abbreviated to three strokes, ⺖, and means a wildly emotional state of mind. And finally, at the very BOTTOM, it can take the form ⺗, in which case we give it the meaning of a valentine.	"The four chambers in the heart. In the West, we point to our head when asked about the mind. In the East, they point to the heart. So then, the radical for ""state of mind""…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シン　安心　あんしん(peace of mind)."	Heart needs three drops of blood to work.	2	4	シン	こころ、-ごころ、りっしんべん	心 (こころ)
640	forget	Vong (quên)	忘	forget, perish, deceased, top hat, fishhook, heart	7	22	Perish . . . heart.		You only truly forget her when she has perished in your heart.	To forget means that something perishes from your heart.	6	3	ボウ	わす.れる	忘れる (わす.れる)
642	endure	Nhẫn	忍	endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart	7	22	Blade . . . heart. Endure here means long-suffering patience.		A ninja must be able to endure the pain of clinging to a ceiling, motionless, for hours at a time, waiting for just the right moment to drop down and thrust the blade of his sword into the hearts of his enemies. By the way, this character is used in the compound 忍者 (ninja) which is why I choose to use ninja as its primitive meaning.	Someone with a razor blade stuck in their heart has to endure the pain wherever they go and can tell no one about it.	JH	1	ニン	しの.ぶ、しの.ばせる	忍ばせる (しの.ばせる), 忍ぶ (しの.ぶ)
643	acknowledge	Nhận	認	acknowledge, say, words, keitai, mouth, endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart	14	22	Words . . . endure.		You are given a speech about some serious mistakes of yours, and you have to endure the whole thing, because all you can do is acknowledge.	"I never read the ""acknowledgements"" section of books or theses, because they are mostly just boring words that i must endure reading, before i can get to the interesting part. :)."	6	3	ニン	みと.める、したた.める	認める (みと.める)
644	mourning	Kỵ (kiêng kị, cấm kị)	忌	mourning, snake, self, heart	7	22	Snake . . . heart.		Remember the tale of Cleopatra? She was MOURNING the loss of her Marc Antony, so she placed the asp SNAKE to her HEART.	"You are mourning the death of a relative, and it feels as if a snake had bitten into your heart. -- ""mourning feels like snake-bitten heart""."	JH	1	キ	い.む、い.み、い.まわしい	忌まわしい (い.まわしい), 忌む (い.む)
645	intention	Chí	志	intention, samurai, heart	7	22	Samurai . . . heart.		A samurai´s intentions always come from the heart.	Gentleman always have hearts full of good intentions.	5	1	シ、シリング	こころざ.す、こころざし	志す (こころざ.す), 志 (こころざし)
646	document	Chí (tạp chí)	誌	document, say, words, keitai, mouth, intention, samurai, heart	14	22	Words . . . intention.		A will is an important document that contains your final word on how you intend to distribute your assets.	This is quite simple: a document is a set of words describing your intentions.	6	2	シ		
648	loyalty	Trung	忠	loyalty, in, stick, mouth, heart	8	22	In the middle of a . . . heart.		Their true loyalty exists in the middle of their hearts.	Your loyalty is to what´s in your heart.	6	1	チュウ		
649	shish kebab	Quán, xuyến (xỏ, xâu, liên quan)	串	shish kebab, kebab, in, stick, mouth, mouth2	7	22	This pictograph of two pieces of meat on a skewer, a shish kebab, will help us in the next frame.		"Naka naka , ""who´s there?"" shish kebab .... ""shish kebab who?""."	This is a pictograph if ever I saw one. Two chunks of meat on a skewer.	JH		カン、ケン、セン	くし、つらぬ.く	串 (くし)
650	afflicted	(Bệnh) Hoạn	患	afflicted, kebab, in, stick, mouth, heart, mouth2	11	22	Shish kebab . . . heart.		A person who is afflicted with the vampire disease can only be killed with a sheesh-kebab through the heart.	If you are afflicted with severe heartburn, eating a spicy shish kebab will feel only slightly less painful than having it jammed straight into your heart.	JH	2	カン	わずら.う	患う (わずら.う)
651	think	Tư	思	think, rice field, brains, heart	9	22	Brains . . . heart.		Think with your brain NOT your heart.	To think is to use your brain over your heart.	2	4	シ	おも.う、おもえら.く、おぼ.す	思う (おも.う)
652	grace	Ân	恩	grace, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard, heart	10	22	Take grace in its sense of a favor freely bestowed, not in its meaning of charming manners or fluid movement. The primitives: cause . . . heart.		Grace here is a favor freely bestowed, like a good deed. So to remember this kanji, go to the local shelter, find a big dog pent up in a small cage and adopt him. That will cause a warm feeling in your heart!	This kanji tells us that wherever heart is the cause, grace is the consequence. Think of “grace” as a graceful act: something benevolent that comes from the heart.	5	1	オン		
653	apply	Ứng (đáp ứng, phản ứng)	応	apply, cave, heart	7	22	"Cave . . . heart. The sense of the key word here is of something appropriate that fills a particular need, and hence ""applies."""		In the videogame Zelda, Link enters a CAVE to visit a fairy that will APPLY magic to fill his HEART containers.	"[bravo, scottamus!] To apply for the job as a (replacement) Batman, you have to make it to the heart of the cave past all the traps he set up to test you. There, you see a table with the application form on it. Now that you think about it, the ad in the paper did say ""Those who don´t make it to the heart of the cave need not apply.""."	5	1	オウ、ヨウ、ノウ	あた.る、まさに、こた.える	
654	idea	Ý	意	idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart	13	22	Sound . . . heart.		When you get a good IDEA you get excited and you can hear the SOUND of your HEART, it´s pounding so hard.	Picture someone who´s just had a great idea, but in place of a blinking light bulb over their head, you see a heart thumping with great noise. Imagine the greater the idea, the louder the sound of the beating heart.	3	4	イ		
656	concept	Tưởng	想	concept, inter milan, inter, tree, wood, eye, heart	13	22	"To distinguish this kanji from that of the previous frame, focus on the sense of the ""con-"" in the word ""concept."" Its elements are: inter- . . . heart."		The concept of love is basically two hearts inter-acting as one.	´´Inter-heart´´ is a new therapy CONCEPT that helps macho guys share their feelings with each other.	3	3	ソウ、ソ	おも.う	想像 (そうぞう), 感想 (かんそう), 予想 (よそう)
657	breath	Tức (Hơi thở)	息	breath, nose, drop, eye, heart	10	22	Nose . . . heart.		Your breath brings oxygen in through your nose which is then pumped around your body by your heart.	I think I´ve met my dream girl, but there´s a problem. her breath is horrible! So, do I listen to my nose or my heart?	3	3	ソク	いき	息 (いき)
658	recess	Khế	憩	recess, tongue, thousand, mouth, nose, drop, eye, heart	16	22	Tongue . . . nose . . . heart. The sense of breath from the last frame should not be used; it could lead you to put only the nose over the heart and leave the tongue off to one side.		Recess to me is a school break. At recess some kiddies are comparing their latest body piercings. Tongues and noses are nothing special. The new cool is to have your heart done!	Ah recess; tongues slandering, noses being turned up, and beneath it all, young hearts being broken. Dominant in playgrounds is the noise of tongues, which helps me remember that in this kanji tongue comes first.	JH	1	ケイ	いこ.い、いこ.う	憩い (いこ.い), 憩う (いこ.う)
659	favor	Huệ	恵	favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart	10	22	Ten . . . fields (or: needle . . . brains) . . . heart.		Too easy. Imagine the Wizard of OZ. There, the three heroes asked the Wizard for three FAVORS: the lion wanted courage of TEN men, the scarecrow wanted a BRAIN, and the tin man wanted a HEART. Ok, the lion bit is stretching but you have it memorized now, so who cares?	Do yourself a favor and take ten minutes to think about your decison...　RTK2:　エ　知恵　ちえ(wisdom)　　　ゴ　互恵　ごけい(reciprocal).	JH	1	ケイ、エ	めぐ.む、めぐ.み	恵贈 (けいぞう), 恵与 (けいよ), 恩恵 (おんけい), 恵む (めぐ.む)
660	fear	Khủng (khủng khiếp, khủng bố, khủng hoảng)	恐	fear, barge, craft, mediocre, drop, wind, heart	10	22	Craft . . . mediocre . . . heart.		"If your heart surgeon is mediocre in his craft, you have plenty of reason to fear. (""Oops, I think I left my scissors in there"")."	My deep dark fear at the bottom of my heart is that I am mediocre at my craft.	JH	3	キョウ	おそ.れる、おそ.る、おそ.ろしい、こわ.い、こわ.がる	恐れる (おそ.れる), 恐ろしい (おそ.ろしい)
661	beguile	Hoặc (nghi hoặc)	惑	beguile, a, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor, heart	12	22	The first three elements, fiesta . . . mouth . . . floor, appeared together once already in frame 380. Beneath them, once again, the heart.		She was beguiled/mislead by his charm: at the party he kissed her on the mouth, they did it on the floor and thus he stole her heart. Poor girl!	The same cowboy from frame # 356 (elements mouth, floor and fiesta), kisses the floor with his mouth, once again, before going to the fiesta. There, he uses his good looks to beguile women (gets them to buy him drinks or such), by playing with their hearts.	JH	1	ワク	まど.う	惑う (まど.う)
662	emotion	Cảm	感	emotion, march, mouth, heart	13	22	Mouths . . . marching . . . heart.		Emotion is a march of mouths inside your heart telling you what to feel.	Strong EMOTIONS don´t stay hidden. They march right out of one´s heart (below) and out one´s mouth (shouted, snarled, or gently whispered - depending on exactly what kind of emotion it is!).	3	3	カン		
663	melancholy	Ưu (ưu phiền)	憂	melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs	15	22	Head . . . crown . . . heart . . . walking legs. Two things merit mention here. First, the doubling-up of the last stroke of head with the top of the crown serves to make the whole more aesthetically beautiful. It happens so rarely that the exceptions are easily learned. Second, try to make a single image out of the four elements. (Religious statuary of melancholy figures should offer plenty of suggestions.)		Melancholy makes me think of Hamlet cause he was so ´emo´. In order to play up his feelings he bares his head and holds his crown over his heart then walks (on walking legs) around the palace making everyone see how melancholy he is. What a wuss.	This is an image of the crucifixion. Jesus is on the cross. His crown of thorns has slipped down and is around his neck, right between his head and his heart. His walking legs can be seen dangling from the cross as well. How MELANCHOLY!	JH	1	ユウ	うれ.える、うれ.い、う.い、う.き	憂い (う.い), 憂い (うれ.い), 憂える (うれ.える)
664	widow	Quả (goá chồng)	寡	widow, house, head, page, animal legs, eight, sword, dagger	14	22	House . . . head . . . dagger. Immediately we get another instance of a very odd exception. Notice how the final stroke of the head is lengthened, giving the final two strokes a chance to stretch out and make room for the dagger that fits in beneath.		The new widow sits in the house, her head in her lap (the extended stroke), her dagger in her husband.	The house´s head, her husband, was murdered with a dagger. You can still see the drops of blood above the dagger. She is now a widow.	JH	1	カ		
665	busy	Mang (bộn rộn)	忙	busy, Freud, state of mind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook	6	22	State of mind . . . perish.		"Busy (as in ""occupied"") means a state of mind where all other thoughts are perished."	"^^^Make the ""state of mind"" primitive Data (from Star Trek) instead right now and save yourself the headache; ´state of mind´ is too vague! (Data can stay so busy as not to sleep without dying. He´s a robot)."	JH	3	ボウ、モウ	いそが.しい、せわ.しい、おそ.れる、うれえるさま	忙しい (いそが.しい)
666	ecstasy	Duyệt (vui vẻ)	悦	ecstasy, Freud, state of mind, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	10	22	State of mind . . . devil.		ECSTASY alters our STATE OF MIND and makes us DEVILS.	The state of mind that horny teenagers are looking for.	JH	1	エツ	よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす	
667	constancy	Hằng	恒	constancy, Freud, state of mind, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one	9	22	State of mind . . . span.		Constancy is holding the same state of mind over a long span of time. (tweaking PepeSeco and mspertus).	Data is the epitome of constancy. As a robot, his consistency spans the entire day.	JH	1	コウ	つね、つねに	
668	lament	Điệu (thương tiếc)	悼	lament, Freud, state of mind, eminent, magic wand, augury, sun, day, ten, needle	11	22	To keep this character distinct from others of similar connotation, one need only think of the Prophet Jeremiah whose poetry gave an eminence to the state of mind we call lamentation.		When the world´s most eminent magician died, everyone´s state of mind became that of lamentation. He was buried with his famous sun-flower wand in his hand.	Data laments that he could never see his eminent father, his creator, ever again. He paints a picture of his father, that looks like a sunflower in the shape of a magic wand.	JH	1	トウ	いた.む	悼む (いた.む)
669	enlightenment	Ngộ (tỉnh ngộ)	悟	enlightenment, Freud, state of mind, I, five, mouth	10	22	"I know of an Indian religious sect which teaches that enlightenment is to be had by covering the eyes with one's index fingers, the ears with the thumbs, and the mouth with the little fingers. While these differ a bit from the five holes that we used to represent the ""I"" (frame 17), the idea of achieving a special state of mind by covering those five places can help you learn this kanji. You might try the position out while you are learning this character."		Enlightenment is a state of mind that goes beyond the five senses.	"Data finds enlightenment when he discovers the answer to the question, ""Who am I?"". (Image: Data meditating in a sitting lotus position)."	JH	1	ゴ	さと.る	悟る (さと.る)
670	dreadful	Bố (hãi, khủng bố)	怖	dreadful, Freud, state of mind, linen, by one’s side, towel	8	22	State of mind . . . linen.		Someone in a dreadful state of mind has crawled into his bed and is hiding under the sheets (linens).	Being an android, Data is white as a sheet. Doctor Crusher always has to remind herself that this is perfectly normal. From a doctor´s perspective, he really does look dreadful.	JH	3	フ、ホ	こわ.い、こわ.がる、お.じる、おそ.れる	怖い (こわ.い)
671	disconcerted	Hoảng (hốt hoảng, hoảng loạn)	慌	disconcerted, Freud, state of mind, laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood	12	22	State of mind . . . laid waste.		(re: wazzab) The state of mind of the people of New Orleans as they examined their city´s concert hall laid waste can best described as disconcerted.	"Data walks in and sees Picard weeping. ""What is the matter, Captain?"" Picard looks up, and replies that his entire home planet has been laid to waste. Data, the master of tact, offers up this consolation: ""Ah. I can see how that would be DISCONCERTing"". It turns out that the flow of tears was really just because Picard had lost his chance at getting at some rare (and thus valuable) flowers on his home planet."	JH		コウ	あわ.てる、あわ.ただしい	慌ただしい (あわ.ただしい), 慌てる (あわ.てる)
672	repent	Hối	悔	repent, Freud, state of mind, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts	9	22	State of mind . . . every (See frame 497).		For all have sinned... so everyone´s state of mind should be to repent.	When you repent, you heal your state of mind by going over every thing you regret doing.	JH	1	カイ	く.いる、く.やむ、くや.しい	悔いる (く.いる), 悔やむ (く.やむ), 悔しい (くや.しい)
673	hate	Tăng (ghét)	憎	hate, Freud, state of mind, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	14	22	State of mind . . . increase.		My state of mind is HATE growing up (formerly - từng trải) //Like the saying goes, Hate just begets Hate. A state of mind that just increases and increases until it explodes.	Data´s one true emotion is hate for Prince´s music. (Image: Data hunched over hands to his ears and screaming while Picard bobs to Purple Rain).	JH	2	ゾウ	にく.む、にく.い、にく.らしい、にく.しみ	憎い (にく.い), 憎しみ (にく.しみ), 憎む (にく.む), 憎らしい (にく.らしい)
674	accustomed	Quán (tập quán)	慣	accustomed, Freud, state of mind, pierce, mother, breasts, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	14	22	State of mind . . . pierce.		Some hardcore monks have a state of mind that has become accustomed to their self-torture through piercing themselves.	At first I thought that seeing people getting so many piercings was gross, but as time goes by your state of mind gets accustomed to it.	5	3	カン	な.れる、な.らす	慣らす (な.らす), 慣れる (な.れる)
675	pleasure	Du (vui vẻ, sảng khoái)	愉	pleasure, Freud, state of mind, meeting, umbrella, butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber	12	22	State of mind . . . butchers (See frame 307).		At the meeting of butchers, in their narrow state of mind, they throw lame jokes around like, ´Oh hello, it´s a pleasure to meat you´, and find this rather pleasing.	Image : Data attending a meeting of the butchers union. As a joke to begin his speech he says, ´Its a pleasure to MEAT you all.´ (thanx to Shibo & nestOr).	JH	1	ユ	たの.しい、たの.しむ	
676	lazy	Đoạ (lười)	惰	lazy, Freud, state of mind, left-handed, left, by one’s side, craft, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	12	22	"State of mind . . . left (i.e. ""sinister"") . . . flesh."		When I am in a LAZY state of mind I use my left hand to play with my meat...it feels like someone else is doing it, which is good cause I´m to lazy to get a date.	When in a lazy state of mind, the things you need to do are left for next month.	JH	1	ダ		
677	humility	Thận (thận trọng)	慎	humility, Freud, state of mind, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight	13	22	State of mind . . . truth.		Humility is the state of mind of accepting the truth about yourself - both favorable and unfavorable. (tweaked version of Raichu´s).	Humility is a state of mind when you consider yourself in accordance with the truth (you neither boast nor demean yourself).	JH	1	シン	つつし.む、つつし、つつし.み	慎む (つつし.む)
678	remorse	Hám (hối hận)	憾	remorse, Freud, state of mind, emotion, march, mouth, heart	16	22	"State of mind . . . emotion. Hint: the etymology of ""remorse"" indicates a memory that returns again and again to ""bite at"" one's conscience and disturb one's peace of mind."		Remorse is the state of mind where I feel bad for what I did while I was tired and emotional!	Tip: If you are confusing this keyword, remorse, with repent (#625) and regret/resentment (#1460), then note that rEMOrse contains EMOtion.	JH	1	カン	うら.む	
679	recollection	Ức (kí ức)	憶	recollection, Freud, state of mind, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart	16	22	State of mind . . . idea.		Recollection is about bringing ideas back to your mind.	Data´s recollection powers are unparalled. He never loses a single idea.	JH	1	オク		
683	pining	Mộ (hâm mộ)	慕	pining, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, valentine	14	22	Graveyard . . . valentine. Note carefully the stroke order of the valentine primitive.		Pining, yearn for... etc. Presumably for lost love. An easy one here, someone standing in the graveyard, placing an old valentine card amonst all the existing tributes.	Morticia and Gomez (of the “Addams Family”) are spending their Valentine´s Day at the graveyard, pining for each other´s affection.	JH	1	ボ	した.う	慕う (した.う)
684	annexed	Thiêm (thêm)	添	annexed, water, water droplets, water pistol, heavens, valentine	11	22	Water . . . heavens . . . valentine.		Hawaii is a little drop of heaven nestled in the waters of the Pacific, most often visited by honeymooners and valentines. It was annexed to the U.S.A. in 1959, and more recently to Japan as well-- albeit only unofficially, and through private commercial holdings.	Annexed to the U.S.A. in 1898, Hawaii is nestled in the waters of the Pacific, a little drop of heaven, often visited on Valentines.. (from Ihatobu with the date corrected. Hawaii became a state in 1959)...　RTK2:　テン　添付　てんぷ(appendix).	JH	1	テン	そ.える、そ.う、も.える、も.う	添う (そ.う), 添える (そ.える)
685	invariably	Tất (tất nhiên, tất yếu)	必	invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3	5	22	"First note the stroke order of this character, which did not really evolve from the heart, even though we take it that way. If one takes it as a pictograph ""dividing"" the heart in half, then one has one of those invariably true bits of human anatomy: the fact that each heart is divided into two halves."		You swear you´ll be in love forever, but invariably there comes a time when your heart is divided.	For this kanji I invariably got the stroke order wrong. I nearly lost heart, but decided to stick (pun) to it. Then I noticed the order is 1) katakana ソ (altered slightly); 2) fishhook; 3) two drops. Now I invariably get it right.	4	3	ヒツ	かなら.ず	必ず (かなら.ず)
686	ooze	Tiết, bí (sự rỉ ra, tiết ra)	泌	ooze, water, water droplets, water pistol, invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3	8	22	Water . . . the invariably divided heart.		Anything full of water will invariably begin to ooze.	When you pierce a heart with a stake, it invariably oozes blood.	JH	1	ヒツ、ヒ		分泌 (ぶんぴつ)
687	hand	Thủ (tay, thủ đoạn)	手	hand	4	23	Any way you count them, there are either too many or too few fingers to see a good pictograph of a hand in this character. But that it is, and so you must.	* Keep to the etymology when using this kanji as a primitive: a single hand all by itself.	This pictograph actually really works if you look at it as a hand with fingers spread and middle finger pointing down. see the very top stroke as the edge of a shirt cuff, and it will all come together.	A hand is useful for 千一(1001) things.	1	4	シュ、ズ	て、て-、-て、た-	手 (て)
688	watch over	Khán (khán giả)	看	watch over, hand, eye	9	23	Hand . . . eyes.		It´s a hot day of summer with a clear sky, you´re sitting outside a cafe (or maybe on a reclining chair in the garden), and you watch over the kids with a hand covering your eyes from the sunlight (next time, don´t forget the sunglasses).	Think of the monster from Pan´s Labrynth, that watched over the poor girl with eyes in the palm of his hands.	6	1	カン	み.る	
689	chafe	Ma (ma sát)	摩	chafe, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, hand, tree2, wood2	15	23	Hemp . . . hand.		"If you grind the hemp without a stone but use your hand instead it will chafe. (Image: ""Robin, why are your hands all chafed?"" ´Uh... (I´ve been grinding hemp all day)´)."	When the feds came to bust your little hemp grove, you jumped out the back side of the cave and tried to repel down with a hemp rope. Unfortunately, the rope chafed your hands and you fell .. ouch!	JH	1	マ	ま.する、さ.する、す.る	
690	ego	Ngã (bản ngã)	我	ego, hand, fiesta	7	23	Hand . . . fiesta. Note how the second stroke of the hand is stretched across to double up as the first stroke of the tasseled arrow we use for fiesta. Compare to frames 17, 36, and 564.		"Someone with a huge EGO is too good for any romantic partner and as such has nothing but personal ""hand fiestas"" with himself every night."	Did you hear about the guy who had such a big EGO that he threw a fiesta for his left hand?	6	1	ガ	われ、わ、わ.が-、わが-	我 (わ), 我 (われ)
691	righteousness	Nghĩa	義	righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta	13	23	Sheep . . . ego.		On the other hand, Woman tend to have too much self-righteousness to allow any man to touch their wooly black sheep this results in similar hand fiestas.	Righteous Christians are sheep with egos (reworked from raulir, fixes word order to match radical order).	5	1	ギ		
692	deliberation	Nghị (nghị luận)	議	deliberation, say, words, keitai, mouth, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta	20	23	Words . . . righteousness.		Careful deliberation produces words of righteousness.	At the worst of times, a jury´s deliberation descends into a war of words between competing self-righteous, power-tripping bastards.	4	3	ギ		
693	sacrifice	Hi (hi sinh)	犠	sacrifice, cow, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta	17	23	Cow . . . righteousness. Do NOT use the image of an animal sacrifice here, as that will have it own character later on.		A cow that is righteous sacrifices her milk for the human race.	Cows are truly righteous animals. They SACRIFICE their milk so that we can have some. And if they don´t have any left, they give a sheep a hand fiesta (good lord this is going too far) and give us that instead. What righteous cows.	JH	1	ギ、キ	いけにえ	
694	rub	Mạt (mà thành bột)	抹	rub, finger, fingers, extremity, one, tree, wood	8	23	Fingers . . . extremity.		"I like to RUB my FINGERS over my EXTREMITIES ....like my extremity-ly long, umm, hair.... This has been edited in response to being reported ...you can change ""hair"" to whatever extremity-ly long body part you like."	When you´re cold, your RUB your FINGERS over your EXTREMITIES vigorously to warm up a bit. I´d still rather go in for a warm fire and some hot cocoa, though.	JH	1	マツ		
697	embrace	Bão (ôm, hoài bão)	抱	embrace, finger, fingers, wrap, bound up, snake, self	8	23	Fingers . . . wrap.		"When embracing someone, wrap your fingers around her butt for added effect. You may think of ""bound with snakes"" as a description of the fingers slithering around the buttocks, if you want a particularly graphic image."	Here, I´m picturing that scene from ET (the extra terrestrial), where ET hugs Elliot before leaving. You see that EMBRACE is ET´s long FINGERS that WRAP around Elliot.	JH	3	ホウ	だ.く、いだ.く、かか.える	抱く (いだ.く), 抱える (かか.える), 抱く (だ.く)
698	board	Đáp	搭	board, finger, fingers, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	12	23	The key word refers to boarding vessels for travel. Its elements are: finger . . . flowers . . . fit together (See frame 270).		"Ok, this is a little wierd, but i took this back to the kanji for pagoda (#254). I think it helps simplify the image, and also helps anchor the pagoda kanji in memory better as an added bonus. say this aloud once, and i think it will bring out a vivid image very quickly: ""Now boarding the pagoda ride. Please keep your fingers inside at all times...""."	When you board the ship on the way out from Hawaii a beautiful crewmember takes her fingers and fits a lei around you ....a lei is flowers fitted together with your fingers.	JH	1	トウ		
699	extract	Sao	抄	extract, finger, fingers, few	7	23	Fingers . . . a few.		You can extract her juices by inserting a few fingers.	The mafia want to extract information from you. You don´t say a word, so out comes the knife. They cut of your fingers until you only have a few left and then you speak.	JH	1	ショウ		
700	confront	Kháng	抗	confront, finger, fingers, whirlwind, top hat, wind	7	23	Fingers . . . a whirlwind.		"Gandalf confronts the evil beast, shouting ""you shall not pass!"". He holds up a single finger and sends forth a whirlwind."	Imagine a thumb war. A confrontation of fingers in a whirlwind.	JH	1	コウ		
701	criticism	Phê	批	criticism, finger, fingers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	7	23	Finger . . . compare.		Think of the two most famous critics, Ebert and Roeper. On their show, they compare thumbs (which are technically fingers) with each other before dispensing criticism.	My criticism earned me the FINGER when I COMPARED her cooking to my mother´s.	6	1	ヒ		
702	beckon	Chiêu (vẫy)	招	beckon, finger, fingers, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth	8	23	Finger . . . seduce.		A Geisha beckons you with her index finger, and as you approach she runs her fingers all over her body in an attempt to seduce you. Keyword meaning : “invite”.	I bet you all know the Maneki Neko, or beckoning cat, who with its raised fingers tries to seduce all good things (success, happiness and harmony) to its owner.	5	3	ショウ	まね.く	招く (まね.く)
703	clear the land	Thác (khai thác)	拓	clear the land, finger, fingers, stone, rock	8	23	Fingers . . . rocks.		A huge index finger coming down from the sky is kicking boulders of rock, clearing the land. Maybe it´s the finger of God preparing a place for his little people to live.	I imagine clearing the land in order to set up your tent after a long day of backpacking. Using your fingers, you pick up all of the rocks and get them out of the way so that you can get a comfortable night sleep. If you don´t clear the land you can just picture the rock sticking into your back as you toss and turn all night long.	JH	1	タク	ひら.く	
704	clap	Phách (vỗ tay)	拍	clap, finger, fingers, white, dove	8	23	Fingers . . . white.		"(Image: the most snooty prim and proper English Lord with white gloves clapping only with his fingers. ""Oh bravo old chap. Bravo..."")."	I clapped so hard, my fingers became white.	JH	1	ハク、ヒョウ		拍手 (はくしゅ), 拍車 (はくしゃ), 一拍 (いっぱく)
705	strike	Đả (đả kích, ẩu đả)	打	strike, finger, fingers, street, nail, spike	5	23	Finger . . . spike.		"You´re using a hammer to drive a nail into a plank, but you miss and strike your fingers, ouch ! PS: the character does not mean ""to go on strike"", it will be very helpful in the long run to create images that convey the proper sense of the character!"	My teacher used to strike my fingers with a street sign.	3	3	ダ、ダアス	う.つ、う.ち-、ぶ.つ	打つ (う.つ)
706	arrest	Câu (bắt)	拘	arrest, finger, fingers, phrase, bound up, mouth	8	23	Fingers . . . phrase.		"You approach the thief from behind, stick your finger at his back to fake a gun, and say the phrase ""You´re under arrest""."	Giving the police the finger and a colorful phrase is a surefire way to get arrested.	JH	1	コウ	かか.わる	
707	discard	Sả (sả thân)	捨	discard, finger, fingers, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, lidded crock, earthenware jar, soil, dirt, ground, mouth	11	23	Fingers . . . cottage.		Someone stuck their fingers in my cottage cheese! I´m going to have to discard the lot!	The wicked witch from Hansel and Gretel only likes the meaty parts of kids. Outside her candy cottage, you can see a pile of discarded fingers.	6	2	シャ	す.てる	捨てる (す.てる)
708	kidnap	Quải (bắt cóc)	拐	kidnap, finger, fingers, mouth, sword, dagger	8	23	Finger . . . mouth . . . dagger.		Wrap your FINGERS around someone´s MOUTH to keep them quiet, then put the KNIFE to their throat to ensure their cooperation. This is the best way to KIDNAP someone.	After you beckon (#650) someone by seducing them, you kidnap them and hang them upside down (the reversed positions of seduce).	JH	1	カイ		
709	pinch	Trích	摘	pinch, finger, fingers, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	14	23	Finger . . . antique.		"My grandma always pinched me with her fingers when i was playing with her antiques. Imagine her fingers, also quite antique, thin, bony and hard, pinching at your hand. ""Keep your fingers away from my antiques!!""."	>_< Don´t you hate when your aunt (who is an antique) PINCHES your cheeks with her antique fingers?	JH	1	テキ	つ.む	摘む (つ.む)
710	challenge	Thiêu (khiêu chiến)	挑	challenge, finger, fingers, turtle, portent	9	23	Fingers . . . portent.		Here comes a new challenge, try to kill Bowser, the giant Turtle using jut on finger.	"You are sure to take a challenge because your victory was portended. So you stand self-confident before your foe, point a finger at him and say ""I will prevail, as was long portended!""."	JH	1	チョウ	いど.む	挑む (いど.む)
711	finger	Chỉ	指	finger, fingers, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day	9	23	Finger . . . delicious.		Finger lickin´ delicious.	"I remember this not as finger which has too many uses elsewhere but as ""fingering"" then its easy: fingering some delicious..."	3	3	シ	ゆび、さ.す、-さ.し	指す (さ.す), 指 (ゆび)
712	hold	Trì (cầm, duy trì)	持	hold, finger, fingers, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	9	23	Fingers . . . Buddhist temple.		At the BUDDHIST TEMPLE you´ll see wonderous things, such as the priest that can HOLD himself upside down with just a FINGER.	In Kyaiktiyo, there is rocking stone which sits on the edge of a cliff, and there is a Buddhist temple built on the top of it. You can rock the stone by pushing it with your finger, but it still holds in place. It´s true, see here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyaiktiyo.	3	4	ジ	も.つ、-も.ち、も.てる	持つ (も.つ)
714	fasten	Quát (bao quát)	括	fasten, finger, fingers, tongue, thousand, mouth	9	23	Finger . . . tongue.		Teacher was always telling us to fasten our lips by pulling a zipper shut with our fingers. It always frightened me because I imagined getting my tongue stuck in the zipper.	On the plane, you refuse to FASTEN your seatbelt and even go so far as to give the stewardess the finger and stick out your tongue at her. The crew comes and pins you down and forces you to FASTEN it.	JH	1	カツ	くく.る	
715	brandish	Huy (phát huy, chỉ huy)	揮	brandish, finger, fingers, army, chariot, crown, car, vehicle	12	23	Finger . . . chariot.		"A military leader in his chariot is brandishing his finger at the enemy, crying ""chaaaaaaaaarrrgggeeee!""."	Think of the movie Gladiator but instead Maximus is brandishing a giant foam brand name (nike, rebok, adidas, whatever) finger like you see at a baseball game. He´s riding in a chariot using the foam finger to kill his enemy.	6	1	キ	ふる.う	
716	conjecture	Suy (giới thiệu)	推	conjecture, finger, fingers, turkey	11	23	Fingers . . . turkey.		In mathematics, a conjecture is a mathematical statement which has been proposed as a true statement, but which no one has yet been able to prove or disprove. Have you heard of the Finger-Turkey conjecture ? It states that if turkeys had fingers, they would be able to count. Be sure to imagine a turkey with fingers at the tip of its wings, counting from one to ten.	In the midst of conjecture on whether it was done or not, mom stuck her fingers in the turkey to check.	6	1	スイ	お.す	推す (お.す)
717	hoist	Dương (giơ lên)	揚	hoist, finger, fingers, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	12	23	Fingers . . . piggy bank.		My piggy bank is so heavy that I cannot HOIST it using just my fingers.	Picture a major robbery where some dudes are breaking into a bank to steal their money. They get their man in the vault through the ceiling - now he´s hanging from a rope a few feet from the ground (like in the movies, dodging laser beams). He reports back that he has found the loot, and its all in a large piggy bank in the center of the vault. The alarm sounds and he´s got to think fast. He jams the four fingers of his right hand in the piggy bank slot and tells his team to hoist him up, he´s got the loot!	JH	1	ヨウ	あ.げる、-あ.げ、あ.がる	揚がる (あ.がる), 揚げる (あ.げる)
718	propose	Đề	提	propose, finger, fingers, just so, sun, day, mend	12	23	Fingers . . . just so.		When a man PROPOSES to a lady, he takes her FINGER and places the ring on it JUST SO, and the moment sweeps her away.	I tried to propose to my girlfriend, but the ring was too small to fit her finger. Instead of saying yes, she just uttered an annoyed sigh. So I rushed to the jeweler where he made it bigger. But now it was too big, so I rushed back to make it smaller. This spiel kept going on until the ring was finally just so. Her eyes lit up and she said yes.	5	1	テイ、チョウ、ダイ	さ.げる	提げる (さ.げる)
719	damage	Tổn	損	damage, finger, fingers, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	23	Finger . . . employee.		"Boss yells, ""Who damaged the Xerox machine?!"" fingers of employees point at one another."	If you finger your employee, you risk incurring many damages from a possible sexual harassment lawsuit.	5	2	ソン	そこ.なう、そこな.う、-そこ.なう、そこ.ねる、-そこ.ねる	損なう (そこ.なう), 損ねる (そこ.ねる)
720	pick up	Thập (nhặt)	拾	pick up, finger, fingers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	9	23	Fingers . . . fit together. Compare frame 698.		I tried to PICK UP the bowling ball...but my FINGERS didn´t FIT in the holes.	Try PICKING UP a girl by trying to FIT your FINGER in you know what... let me know how that works.	3	2	シュウ、ジュウ	ひろ.う	拾得 (しゅうとく), 収拾 (しゅうしゅう), 拾う (ひろ.う)
721	shouldering	Đảm (đảm đương)	担	shouldering, finger, fingers, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor	8	23	The key word of this frame refers to shouldering a burden of some sort. Its elements are: fingers . . . nightbreak.		One of Hercules´ labors was to hold the world in his fingers for Atlas and not move until nightbreak, shouldering the considerable burden.	One of the classic stories of shouldering a heavy burden is that of the kid who had to stick his finger on a dam until nightbreak to prevent it from breaking down.	6	2	タン	かつ.ぐ、にな.う	担ぐ (かつ.ぐ), 担う (にな.う)
722	foothold	Cứ (căn cứ)	拠	foothold, finger, fingers, dispose, walking legs, wind	8	23	Fingers . . . dispose.		When rockclimbing, when your weight disposes of the valuble foothold, all that´s left is your fingers keeping you from death. Meanwhile, your walking legs are left dangling in the wind.	Once you have a good foothold, you can dispose of your fingerhold.	JH	1	キョ、コ	よ.る	拠点 (きょてん), 占拠 (せんきょ), 根拠 (こんきょ)
723	sketch	Miêu (miêu tả)	描	sketch, finger, fingers, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains	11	23	Fingers . . . seedling.		A sketch is a seedling (#234) of things to come. Before the assault, the sergeant draws a sketch of the attack with his fingers in the sand.	"I´m bad at drawing, so when I try to sketch the kanji for cat, you can sort of recognize it, but I don´t get the curve of the ""wild dogs"" just right."	JH	1	ビョウ	えが.く、か.く	描く (えが.く)
724	maneuver	Thao (thao tác)	操	maneuver, finger, fingers, wooden goods, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3	16	23	Fingers . . . goods . . . tree.		"Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (#215) , maneuver (FRAME 671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: Using just a finger you are trying to maneuver your furniture round your room."	Luke skywalker points his fingers and uses the force to maneuver the goods through the tree branches and up over the tree.	6	1	ソウ、サン	みさお、あやつ.る	操る (あやつ.る), 操 (みさお)
725	touch	Tiếp (tiếp xúc)	接	touch, finger, fingers, concubine, vase, stand up, woman	11	23	Fingers . . . vase . . . woman.		A pervert meets a woman. The pervert tries to touch the women with his lustful fingers. The woman takes a vase, lifts it over her head and smashes it on the pervert´s head...	CHIKAN!! These are the perverts who use their fingers to touch standing women on crowded trains.	5	2	セツ、ショウ	つ.ぐ	接ぐ (つ.ぐ)
726	put up a notice	Yết (giơ cao, dựng cờ, đăng (báo))	掲	put up (a notice), finger, fingers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	11	23	Fingers . . . siesta.		A muchacho puts up a notice that says “NO FINGER SNAPPING ALLOWED. MUCHACHOS ON SIESTA”. The muchachos are sleeping soundly, completely oblivious to the sound of dogs barking, guitar playing and even gun shots. Now imagine one tourist passing by and snapping his fingers and waking up all the muchachos at once.	"Just as I was finished putting up a ""no siestas"" notice on my property, a muchacho gave me the finger, sat down, and promptly fell asleep."	JH	1	ケイ	かか.げる	掲げる (かか.げる)
727	hang	Quải (treo)	掛	hang, finger, fingers, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, magic wand, augury, soil2, dirt2, ground2	11	23	Fingers . . . ivy . . . magic wand.		Think RPG. The wizard points his finger to the guard and the ivy he has just animated with his magic wand climbs down the wall to hang the poor guy, opening the way for the adventurers into the dungeon.	3 ways you could hang something: 1) the normal way, with your finger putting something on a hook or whatever, 2) hanging from a vine the natural way, or 3) by means of the magic of the wand.	JH	3	カイ、ケイ	か.ける、-か.ける、か.け、-か.け、-が.け、か.かる、-か.かる、-が.かる、か.かり、-が.かり、かかり、-がかり	掛かる (か.かる), 掛ける (か.ける), 掛 (かかり)
729	polish	Nghiên (mài, nghiên cứu)	研	polish, stone, rock, two hands	9	23	Stone . . . two hands.		My stones are so huge that it takes two hands to polish them!	You use two hands to polish a stone: one to hold it and the other to rub it.	3	4	ケン	と.ぐ	研ぐ (と.ぐ)
730	commandment	Giới (răn)	戒	commandment, two hands, fiesta	7	23	Two hands . . . fiesta.		Two hands, fiesta.....when moses received the ten commandments with two hands, he went back down the mountain and threw a fiesta with the jews, celebrating the arrival of the commandments.	"When Moses returned with the commandments in his hands he saw that his people were throwing a fiesta. At first he was excited. Then he looked around and got pissed. ""Awww, c´mon guys. Golden idols? Really?""."	JH	1	カイ	いまし.める	戒める (いまし.める)
732	contraption	Giới (cơ giới)	械	contraption, tree, wood, commandments, two hands, fiesta	11	23	Tree . . . commandment.		The ten commandments were heavy. So to help carry them, Moses made a wooden contraption; the ark of the covenant.	Think of a complex wooden contraption capable of giving you a two-handed fiesta.	4	2	カイ	かせ	
733	nose	Tỵ (mũi)	鼻	nose, drop, eye, rice field, brains, two hands	14	23	Let me share a rather grotesque image to help with this kanji. Imagine taking your two hands and reaching up into someone's nostrils. Once inside you grab hold of the brain and yank it out. At the end, you would have a picture something like that of this character, the full kanji for nose.		An Egyptian embalmer reaching both hands into the dead pharaoh´s nose and yanking out handfuls of brain.	I sneezed so hard that through my NOSE I blew out my BRAINS into BOTH HANDS.	3	2	ビ	はな	鼻 (はな)
734	punish	Hình (hình phạt)	刑	punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber	6	23	Two hands . . . saber.		This kanji is for severe punishment. A man has his shackled hands placed on a wood block and they´re chopped off with a saber. No more stealing bread in the Middle East...	In Arab countries they punish theives by cutting off BOTH HANDS with a SABRE.	JH	1	ケイ		
735	mould	Hình (mô hình)	型	mould, punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber, soil, dirt, ground	9	23	Punish . . . soil. In cases like this, you might find it easier to break the character up into its more basic elements, like this: two hands . . . saber . . . soil.		A famous ninja once pressed his two hands and saber into the soil of his temple, before going onto a mission from which he never came back. Think of some sort of signature that he left behind him. The mould of his two hands and saber has since become a popular attraction in the area.	As a PUNISHMENT they made me lay face down in the DIRT leaving a nice imprinted MOULD of my whole BODY.	4	2	ケイ	かた、-がた	型 (かた)
736	genius	Tài	才	genius, genius, genie	3	23	"Whatever one is particularly adept at - one's special ""genius"" - one can do very easily, ""with one finger"" as the phrase goes. This kanji is a pictograph of that one finger. Note how its distinctive form is created by writing the final stroke of the element for fingers backwards."	* The primitive meaning, genie, derives from the roots of the word genius. Use the genie out in the open when the primitive appears to the right of or below its relative primitive; in that case it also keeps its same form. At the left, the form is altered, and the meaning becomes a genie in the bottle.	"Spinal tap: ""Every other band´s amps go to ten. But you see my extra stroke of genius - these go to eleven.""."	A TEN year old had a STROKE of GENIUS and wrote this joke: 何歳ですか？　　　。。。天才です！.	2	3	サイ		
737	property	Tài (tài sản)	財	property, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, genie	10	23	Clam . . . genie.		If you´re a money genius, you can afford a lot of property.	The keyword refers to property in the sense of money or funds rather than of buildings or real estate. Keep this one distinct from frame 193 (“wealth”) and frame 473 (“assets”). Here we have a genie, gulping down oysters. Someone tries to grab an oyster and the genie puts his big arms around his oysters and states his “right of ownership” : “They´re mines, my property!”.	5	3	ザイ、サイ、ゾク	たから	財産 (ざいさん), 私財 (しざい), 文化財 (ぶんかざい)
738	lumber	Tài (tài liệu, gỗ dùng đc)	材	lumber, tree, wood, genie	7	23	Tree . . . genie.		A TREE GENIUS is a LUMBER jack. Duh.	Just when the were about to turn the last tree into lumber, the Lorax (the tree-genie) jumps out and puts a stop to the whole affair.	4	2	ザイ		
739	suppose	Tồn (tồn tại, bảo tồn)	存	suppose, genie, child	6	23	"Genie in the bottle . . . a child. Hint: focus on the key word's connotation of ""make believe""."		How do you suppose they manage to cram a genie inside a bottle? Well, I suppose they put him in there while he´s still a little child...	Villagers on a little remote island one day find a bottle washed out by the sea onto the beach. After wiping the bottle and taking a closer look, they are amazed to see a (very small) child in it. The villagers suppose that the child is a genie in a bottle.	6	3	ソン、ゾン		存在 (そんざい), 存続 (そんぞく), 既存 (きぞん)
740	exist	Tại (tồn tại)	在	exist, genie, soil, dirt, ground	6	23	Genie in the bottle . . . soil.		Genie in the bottle does exist but you need to dig deep into the soil to find one.	You wipe the soil from the bottle, only to have a genie float out above you, saying: ´I am the genie in a bottle, what is your wish?´ So now you know that they do exist.	5	3	ザイ	あ.る	在る (あ.る)
741	from	Nãi (?)	乃	from, fist, from	2	23	"This pictograph of a clenched fist is another of the ""hand primitives."" Take note of its rather peculiar drawing. Try to think of drawing a fist (the primitive meaning) ""from"" this character to give yourself a connotation for the otherwise abstract key word."	* The primitive meaning is taken from the pictograph: a fist.	FROM a pictograph of a thumbs up. That´s how it also gets the primitive meaning of fist.	"Think Charlton Heston: ""From my cold, dead fists"". Speech given to the National Boxing Association, in response to stricter control on boxing gloves."	Names	1	ナイ、ダイ、ノ、アイ	の、すなわ.ち、なんじ	
742	portable	Huề (mang theo)	携	portable, finger, fingers, turkey, fist, from	13	23	Fingers . . . turkey . . . fist.		"This character is the ""kei"" in ""keitai"" (cell phone), a word you will no doubt hear often in Japan, since everyone has one. Imagine you´ve just arrived in Japan, but don´t have a cell phone yet, so instead you´re carrying around a portable turkey (phone) you can hold in your fist. To dial a number, just poke it with your fingers."	Because they have no fingers, turkeys must use their fists when dialing on a portable phone.	JH	1	ケイ	たずさ.える、たずさ.わる	携える (たずさ.える), 携わる (たずさ.わる)
743	reach out	Cập (phổ cập)	及	reach out, fist, from, drop	3	23	The addition of a final stroke transforms this character from the primitive for a clenched fist into the kanji for reaching out, much as a stroke of kindness can often turn anger into acceptance.	* As a primitive, this shall stand for outstretched hands. Only take care not to confuse it with that for beg (Frame 501)	I like to think of this as a fist with with brass knuckles because of the extra line. An old school thug reaches out to help you up but then with his other hand ( with the brass knuckles) punches you.	Reach out and fist someone (Do you see the person primitive?).	JH	1	キュウ	およ.ぶ、およ.び、および、およ.ぼす	及び (およ.び), 及ぶ (およ.ぶ), 及ぼす (およ.ぼす)
744	suck	Hấp (hô hấp)	吸	suck, mouth, reach out	6	23	Mouth . . . outstretched hands. Hint: use the image of a nursing baby.		Imagine a baby reaching out and holding mom´s breast as if it were bottle, and sucking on it to get some milk.	An open mouth and reaching hands : a baby wants to suck at his mother´s breast.	6	3	キュウ	す.う	吸う (す.う)
745	handle	Tráp (đối xử)	扱	handle, finger, fingers, reach out	6	23	Finger . . . outstretched hands.		See suck (#689): if it´s too big to handle, just use your fingers instead...	One of the first thing a baby can do with his hand is to reach out and grab your finger as if it was a little handle.	JH	1	ソウ、キュウ	あつか.い、あつか.う、あつか.る、こ.く	扱う (あつか.う)
746	length	Trượng (= 10 thước)	丈	length, stick, tucked under the arm	3	23	The length whose measure this kanji depicts extends from the tip of one hand to the tip of the other with arms at full length. Notice the final stroke, which cuts across the vertical second stroke to distinguish it from large (Frame 112).		Both a meter and a yard are about one arm-length.	"This kanji reminds me of the kanji for big (I think it looks the same kinda of except for the last stroke). Maybe this works for guys, but when you were growing up you would compare ""length"" with your friends trying to show how BIG you were. You wouldn´t show ""it"" but you would spread your arms out as wide as possible to exaggerate your length. Maybe even so wide that you trip (I the 3rd stroke getting pushed over)! I just find it easier to relate this to the previous kanji."	JH		ジョウ	たけ、だけ	丈 (たけ)
747	history	Sử	史	history, mouth, tucked under the arm	5	23	A mouth . . . tucked under the arm.		I sleep in history class with my mouth tucked under my arm.	"History students usually going to school with a history book tucked under their arm. But now instead of a book, you have a small talking mouth that tell you about history. ""When I was young, I used to walk 5 miles everyday.....""."	4	2	シ		
748	officer	Lại (quan lại)	吏	officer, history, length, stick, one, mouth, tucked under the arm	6	23	One . . . mouth . . . tucked under the arm.		One officer can change the course of history.	One officer, namely Napoleon, changed the course of history. (Thanks, ayoung24). Napoleon is also my primitive meaning.	JH	1	リ		
749	grow late	Canh (đổi mới v một đêm chia ra 5 canh)	更	grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm	7	23	The implication behind the meaning of grow late is that things are changing in the same way that the day turns into night. The elements: ceiling . . . sun . . . tucked under the arm.		At nightbreak (#30) the sun rises above the floor, so it is logical that when it is growing late, the sun would rise to the ceiling. Time to pack up your things and take your belongings under your arm.	It´s starting to GROW LATE, so God will take the SUN, and TUCK IT UNDER HIS ARM, and walk away. In the morning, he´ll bring it back, so don´t worry.	JH	3	コウ	さら、さら.に、ふ.ける、ふ.かす	更 (さら), 更かす (ふ.かす), 更ける (ふ.ける)
750	stiff	Ngạnh (ngang ngạnh)	硬	stiff, stone, rock, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm	12	23	Rocks . . . grow late.		A stiff drink on the ROCKs after it GROWS LATE is a way to unwind after a long day...	Stones are so stiff that even if you spent all day straining trying to change their shape, it would grow late far before you ever accomplished your task.	JH	2	コウ	かた.い	硬い (かた.い)
752	or again	Hựu	又	or again, crotch	2	23	"Like the several abbreviations in Roman script to indicate ""and"" (+, &, etc.), this short two-stroke kanji is used for the similar meaning of or again."	* As a primitive, it will mean crotch, as in the crotch of the arm. Or whatever.	"After her boyfriend´s crotch has been satisfied, a woman might suggest they cuddle. The boyfriend, on the other hand, might say, ""Or again, we could fool around . . . ""."	"This keyword should really be ""again"" not ""or again"" Here is some context: think of the phrase ""Jya mata"" ""じゃ又"" which is a farewell similar to ""then again"". Also ""Mata ne"" ""又ね"" and mata ashita (again tomorrow) ""又明日""。 Note this kanji is rarely used, most of the time JP people spell it out ""mata"" except for in the last example: 又明日."	JH	1	ユウ	また、また-、また.の-	又 (また)
753	pair	Song (song sinh)	双	pair, crotch, crotch2	4	23	The crotch reduplicated gives us a pair.		Crotch to crotch is how many pairs spend their private time together. . .	The animals boarding Noah´s Ark all came in pairs – but Noah had to carefully check the two crotches in each pair to ensure that the animals were of different sexes and thus able to further their species after the flood.	JH	2	ソウ	ふた、たぐい、ならぶ、ふたつ	双 (ふた)
754	mulberry	Tang (cây dâu)	桑	mulberry, crotch, tree, wood, crotch3	10	23	"Crotches, crotches everywhere . . . tree. Hint: think of a group of children playing an original version of ""Here We Go 'Round the Mulberry Bush."""		"Children going around the mulberry tree singing ""This is the way we wash our crotch, wash our crotch, wash our crotch...""."	Imagine kids all over the top of a mulberry tree, sitting astride limbs so that their weight is on their crotches. (Mulberry trees have big sprawling limbs that run horizontally or at shallow angles making them easy to climb and sit in. I have an old mulberry in my yard, and my kids are in it constantly).	JH	1	ソウ	くわ	桑 (くわ)
755	vessels	Chích (đếm thuyền)	隻	vessels, turkey, crotch	10	23	The key word indicates the Japanese generic term for counting ships. Its elements: turkey . . . crotch.		On Vessels that travel long distances, sailors often get quite lonely. They keep TURKEYS on the VESSELS, but not for use as food. The lonely sailors take turns enjoying the turkey´s CROTCH.	Donald Duck is a big bird that does not wear pants. It´s good to use him as a mnemonic because he is a sailor, and this kanji is used to count vessels.	JH	2	セキ		
756	safeguard	Hộ (bảo hộ)	護	safeguard, say, words, keitai, mouth, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch	20	23	Words . . . flowers . . . vessels.		Think of the flower-vessels as a the Greenpeace vessel “Arctic Sunrise”, only instead of a rainbow there is a big flower painted on the hull (this will come back in seize (#701) and harvest (#908)). Think of “flower-power” and of the “peace” in “Greenpeace” and it will make some sense hopefully. -- In this kanji, we see an inauguration speech being given before the Greenpeace vessel is set afloat and sent to safeguard our planet.	(With sarcasm) A Bush speech telling how all the US vessels are always welcomed, covered with flowers and words of gratitude for safeguarding democracy from the evil doers.	5	1	ゴ	まも.る	
757	seize	Hoạch	獲	seize, pack of wild dogs, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch	16	23	A pack of wild dogs . . . flowers . . . vessels. Do not confuse this with the character for arrest (Frame 706).		A pack of genetically-modified wild dogs is seized by a group of Greenpeace activists and taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (the flower vessel, see safeguard (#700)).	Customs just seized a crate of poppies (flowers) detected by trained wild dogs who inspected the vessel.	JH	1	カク	え.る	獲る (え.る)
758	guy	Nô (nô lệ, nô dịch)	奴	guy, woman, crotch	5	23	Woman . . . crotch.		"That GUY stole my WOMAN so I kicked him in the CROTCH. (This story helps keep the word ""GUY"" as someone you hold in contempt)."	Guys only care about 2 things: women and their crotch (preferably at the same time).	JH	1	ド	やつ、やっこ	
759	angry	Nộ (thịnh nộ)	怒	angry, guy, woman, crotch, heart	9	23	Guy . . . heart.		This woman is angry because of the guys in the previous frame who pay more attention to her crotch than her heart. I prefer to decompose the kanji in three elements here because it is easier to read like a mnemonic.	WOMEN get very ANGRY over the thought that GUYS are more interested in her CROTCH than her HEART.	JH	3	ド、ヌ	いか.る、おこ.る	怒る (いか.る), 怒る (おこ.る)
760	friend	Hữu	友	friend, by one’s side, crotch	4	23	By one's side . . . crotch.		A good friend is always at your side. ---- I teach at a Japanese High School, and I often see chummy male students grabbing each other´s crotches in a joking manner. It´s still weird to me, but apparently reaching to your side and grabbing you neighbor´s crotch is a great way to express friendship.	Think of a sex friend (a fuck buddy if you will). The benefit of such a relationship is that there will always be a crotch by your side. (the Japanese refer to such a friend as セフレ, just as we do).	2	5	ユウ	とも	友 (とも)
761	slip out	Bạt (rút ra)	抜	slip out, finger, fingers, friend, woman, crotch	7	23	Fingers . . . friend.		Don´t let good friends slip out between your fingers.	The only stories I can think of here are really aggressively pornographic, so maybe I should just say nothing.	JH	3	バツ、ハツ、ハイ	ぬ.く、-ぬ.く、ぬ.き、ぬ.ける、ぬ.かす、ぬ.かる	抜かす (ぬ.かす), 抜かる (ぬ.かる), 抜く (ぬ.く), 抜ける (ぬ.ける)
762	throw	Đầu (đầu tư)	投	throw, finger, fingers, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	7	23	Fingers . . . missile.		Well, you usually use your fingers to throw objects used as missile weapons. Easy. By the way, for those of you looking for a less anachronistic image for the missile primitive as a modern rocket, try a slingshot. it´s a crotch (originally a tree branch) that sends missile projectiles flying into/like the wind. And for this present kanji, it is something you naturally use with your fingers...	"If you use the primitive ""semen"" (flying in the wind from your crotch) instead of missile then all kanjis with this primitive will hilariously create a perfect story."	3	3	トウ	な.げる、-な.げ	投げる (な.げる)
763	drown	Một (?)	没	drown, water, water droplets, water pistol, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	7	23	Water . . . missile.		(Note: this kanji is more collapse/cave-in/sink (#1888) than humans drowning) A water missile? A torpedo! And when it hits it´s target? The ship collapses then sinks and everyone drowns!	"The submarine´s hull was breached after being struck by a torpedo (""water missile""), causing the entire crew to drown."	JH	1	ボツ、モツ	おぼ.れる、しず.む、ない	
765	establishment	Thiết (thiết lập)	設	establishment, say, words, keitai, mouth, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	11	23	Words . . . missile.		When you attack the establishment with words, it fights back with missiles.	Establishment can be attacked by words or by missiles. Writers will use words, whereas militars will use missiles.	5	2	セツ	もう.ける	設ける (もう.ける)
766	beat	Kích (công kích, tập kích)	撃	beat, tank, car, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, hand	15	23	Car . . . missile . . . hand.		Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down.	Think 3 methods of attack all combined into 1 kanji: 1. Vehicle to transport troops 2. Once troops have disembarked they have their missiles 3. If they run out of missiles they resort to hand to hand combat to beat the enemy.	JH	1	ゲキ	う.つ	撃つ (う.つ)
767	husk	Xác (vỏ)	殻	husk, samurai, superfluous, crown, wind, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, wind2	11	23	Samurai . . . superfluous . . . missile.		Samurai´s husk/shell/armour is superflous to missile attacks 甲殻　卵殻　貝殻.	husk or shell. Japan´s recent history in a nutshell: first the samurai became superfluous and then the Americans started to throw missiles and bombs during WWII.	JH	1	カク、コク、バイ	から、がら	殻 (から)
768	branch	Chi (chi nhánh)	支	branch, ten, needle, crotch	4	23	Needle . . . crotch.		Picture sliding down the branch of a tree (in this case a pine tree or any tree with needles) and getting a bunch of needles stuck in your crotch--ouch!!	A special branch of the military called the Needle Crotch Unit. Their only weapon is the needle embedded in their crotches, and they´re quite adept at using them.	5	3	シ	ささ.える、つか.える、か.う、しんよう、じゅうまた	支える (ささ.える)
769	skill	Kĩ (kĩ thuật)	技	skill, finger, fingers, branch, ten, needle, crotch	7	23	Fingers . . . branch.		(Adapted from darg_sama´s) Balancing a branch on your finger is the prototypical example of a skill that is nothing more than a skill (i.e., it is completely useless).	I think of a guy balancing a branch on his finger, which definitely takes some minimal amount of skill.	5	2	ギ	わざ	技 (わざ)
770	bough	Chi (chi nhánh)	枝	bough, tree, wood, branch, ten, needle, crotch	8	23	Tree . . . branch. Take a moment to focus on the differences between a bough, a branch, and a twig (Frame 319).		The tree´s primary branch is known as the bough.	Differentiate between BOUGH and branch (#711): ´branch´ is smaller, and can also refer to the branch of a store (支店), which has nothing to do with a tree. But a BOUGH is a main part of a tree, perhaps where the trunk splits into several large boughs, and so it logically utilizes the 木 radical.	5	2	シ	えだ	枝 (えだ)
771	limb	Chi	肢	limb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, branch, ten, needle, crotch	8	23	Part of the body . . . branch.		"The limbs that this kanji represents are parts of the body that are connected to the trunk, like the main branches to a tree (“arms and legs” is the second meaning of this kanji). In other words, limbs are ""flesh branches""."	Limbs are body parts that branch off.	JH	1	シ		
772	stalk	Hành (thân cây cỏ)	茎	stalk, flowers, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	8	23	Flower . . . spool.		PRIMITIVE: soiled crotch = soiled underwear. To precent anyone from picking the beautiful flower, the gardner hung soiled underwear on the stalk.	"Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Just get a flower and carefully wrap some toilet paper around its stalk. Spool also appears in suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), diameter (#882), sutra (#1360)."	JH	1	ケイ、キョウ	くき	茎 (くき)
773	suspicious	Quái (kì quái)	怪	suspicious, Freud, state of mind, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	8	23	State of mind . . . spool.		When you´re suspicious, your state of mind twists round and round like a spool of thread.	Imagine a loud farting sound on The Enterprise (sorry). Everyone looks around trying to find who did it. The one looking most suspicious is Data. His soiled crotch gives him away.	JH	1	カイ、ケ	あや.しい、あや.しむ	怪しい (あや.しい), 怪しむ (あや.しむ)
774	lightly	Khinh (khinh công)	軽	lightly, car, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	12	23	Car . . . spool.		Fact: this kanji is used to denote a certain class of vehicles in Japan whose engines are under a certain size (less than 750cc I think) and are called light vehicles here. Imagine a so-called light vehicle or a light-truck with a load of spools driving down a road ever so lightly, careful not to let any of the spools roll out onto the street.	I want to tread lightly on the environment.... That´s why I CAR-SPOOL to work everyday.... I know, lame.	3	2	ケイ	かる.い、かろ.やか、かろ.んじる	軽い (かる.い), 軽やか (かろ.やか)
775	uncle	Thúc	叔	uncle, above, small, little, crotch	8	23	Above . . . little . . . crotch.		Oh come on people - say what we´ve all been thinking: the uncle is that creepy guy towering above a little one´s crotch.	Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team). You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching...	JH	1	シュク		
776	coach	Đốc (đô đốc)	督	coach, uncle, above, small, little, crotch, eye	13	23	Uncle . . . eye.		Creepy uncle volunteers as gymnastics coach so he can eye the team from below.	Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when COACHing...	JH	1	トク		
777	loneliness	Tịch (tịch mịch)	寂	loneliness, house, uncle, above, small, little, crotch	11	23	House . . . uncle.		The unmarried uncle´s house is the picture of lonlieness.	Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching...	JH	1	ジャク、セキ	さび、さび.しい、さび.れる、さみ.しい	寂滅 (じゃくめつ), 静寂 (せいじゃく), 閑寂 (かんじゃく), 寂 (さび), 寂しい (さび.しい), 寂れる (さび.れる)
778	graceful	Thục (hiền thục, trong trẻo, hiền lành)	淑	graceful, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncle, above, small, little, crotch	11	23	Water . . . uncle.		Uncle (the one who is lonely and coaches kids in his spare time) is actually a graceful guy once he hits the water, as he used to be part of the swimming team in his youth.	Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching...	JH	1	シュク	しと.やか	
779	anti-	Phản	反	anti-, demonstation, cliff, crotch	4	23	Cliff . . . crotch.		I think of an anti-hero (Dirty Harry etc.) for this primitive, whose trademark for disposing of villians is not an honorable fight, but a kick in the crotch and then a shove off a cliff (perhaps whilst the villain´s back is turned).	Many cultures are so anti-sex you´d think they just want people to throw their crotches over a cliff.	3	3	ハン、ホン、タン、ホ	そ.る、そ.らす、かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る	反映 (はんえい), 反対 (はんたい), 違反 (いはん), 謀反 (むほん), 反らす (そ.らす), 反る (そ.る)
780	slope	Phản (cái dốc)	坂	slope, soil, dirt, ground, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	7	23	Ground . . . anti-.		As the villain (pushed off by the anti-hero) is tumbling down the slope, he activates gadget skis to escape, spraying soil everywhere as he flies down the slope.	This kanji depicts a classic enviornmental problem: erosion. Erosion occurs when all of the soil washes of the side of the cliff, eventually causing the cliff to disappear, leaving a slope (an anti- cliff if you will) in its place.	3	2	ハン	さか	坂 (さか)
781	plank	Bản (tấm bảng)	板	plank, tree, wood, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	8	23	Tree . . . anti-.		Of course, trees are anti-plank. Wouldn´t you be if you were a tree?	Trees are naturally opposed to, or anti, the making of planks.	3	2	ハン、バン	いた	乾板 (かんばん), 鉄板 (てっぱん), 板 (いた)
782	return	Phản (trả lại)	返	return, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch, road	7	23	Anti- . . . road.		Pretty obvious: to return is to turn back on the road you´re on and go the opposite way.	"In ""The Return of the anti-hero"", Clint Eastwood kicks the villain in the crotch, pushes them off the cliff and onto a busy highway. A tiring movie franchise to say the least...."	3	3	ヘン	かえ.す、-かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る	返す (かえ.す), 返る (かえ.る)
783	marketing	Phiến (bán)	販	marketing, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	11	23	Shells/money . . . anti-.		The goal of marketing is to get people who are naturally anti-buying to spend their shells (money).	『MARKETING: MONEY, ANTI』 The wide presence of MARKETING in our society has led people to become ANTI-MONEY.	JH	2	ハン		
784	claw	Trảo (móng, vuốt)	爪	claw, vulture	4	23	This character is a pictograph of a bird's claw, and from there comes to mean animal claws in general (including human fingernails).	* As a primitive, we shall use the graphic image of a vulture, a bird known for its powerful claws. It generally appears above another primitive, in which case it gets squeezed into the form ⺥.	A pictograph of Wolverine´s adamantium claws.	Pictograph, see book. * I prefer the primitive meaning of an eagle rather than vulture. Somehow vulture makes me think more about meat and dead corpses than claws. An eagle however immediately brings to my mind the image of an eagle plunging into a stream catching fish in his claws, or that of the great eagles rescuing Bilbo and his party in Jrr Tolkien´s novel “Bilbo the Hobbit”.	JH		ソウ	つめ、つま-	爪 (つめつま)
785	gentle	Thoả (thoả hiệp)	妥	gentle, claw, vulture, woman	7	23	Vulture . . . woman.		Overly gentle women are vultures who want to marry you and steal your money - not true but an easy mnemonic!	An eagle must be extra gentle to pick up a dainty woman in its sharp claws.	JH	1	ダ		
786	milk	Nhũ	乳	milk, fledgling, claw, vulture, child, fishhook	8	23	Fledglings . . . hook.		A fledgling is being nursed at a zoo, it is fed milk through a small tube that is bent in the shape of a hook (so that it fits inside its beak). The fledgling soon becomes addicted to milk, giving us this very catchy mnemonic: “fledgling hooked on milk”.	Drinking milk not only reduces cavity (#96)´s but also strengthens nails (claws) thanks astgtciv.	6	2	ニュウ	ちち、ち	乳 (ち), 乳 (ちち)
787	floating	Phù (phù du)	浮	floating, water, water droplets, water pistol, fledgling, claw, vulture, child	10	23	Water . . . fledglings.		Floating rubber ducky!!!	A nest of fledglings somehow fell into the water (maybe it was perched on a tree bending over the river), but they are safe for now as the nest is floating. The fledglings are enjoying the cruise but they are soon coming to a great waterfall... ( a little drama to help us remember the story).	JH	3	フ	う.く、う.かれる、う.かぶ、む、う.かべる	浮かぶ (う.かぶ), 浮かべる (う.かべる), 浮かれる (う.かれる), 浮く (う.く)
789	leader	Tướng	将	leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue	10	23	Turtle . . . vulture . . . glue.		The leader in this race is the turtle! It appears he has covered the vulture’s feet in glue, so that the vulture cannot get off the starting block.	X-men and TMNT join forces: Their new leader is an awsome asshole. He is simply Wolverine and Raphael glued together back to back (the biggest assholes from both groups combined).	6	2	ショウ、ソウ	まさ.に、はた、まさ、ひきい.る、もって	
790	exhort	Tưởng (?)	奨	exhort, leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue, large, St. Bernard	13	23	Leader . . . St. Bernard dog. Do not confuse with urge (Frame 300).		It´s easy to picture a LEADER that uses a BIG dog to EXHORT his people to do more.	Here we have a St.Bernard exhorting the vulture to become the leader in the race against the turtle, but he can´t because of the glue. see leader (#731).	JH	1	ショウ、ソウ	すす.める	
792	pick	Thải (hái)	採	pick, finger, fingers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood	11	23	Unlike pick up (Frame 720), this character is used for picking fruits from trees. Its elements: finger . . . grab.		You pick cheries with your fingers, then along comes a giant vulture and picks up the whole tree with its claws.	"Tip: vulture + tree : Heisig later combines these into a single kanji 采 called grab (#2090). Story: As you go to pick your nose, your parent grabs your finger and pulls it away (& gives you a lecture on social etiquette). REF: ""grab"" also appears in vegetable (#734), coloring (#1714)."	5	2	サイ	と.る	採る (と.る)
793	vegetable	Thái (rau)	菜	vegetable, flowers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood	11	23	Flower . . . grab.		A vegetarian vulture is munching on a flower, perched on a tree, patiently waiting for a patch of vegetables to grow.	Wolverine is turning into total hippie. He said he only eats vegetables now and last time I saw him sitting in a tree with flowers in his hair.	4	2	サイ	な	菜 (な)
794	accept	Thụ (nhận)	受	accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch	8	23	Birdhouse . . . crotch.		The bird house is the brothel (someone else said so) and of course everyone is welcome - thay accept any crotch.	A birdhouse is a whorehouse that will accept any crotch even those with STDs. (Image: a birdhouse whorehouse with every kind of bird coming and going. Some old madam at the front hole accepts everyone, even the nasty old crows).	3	3	ジュ	う.ける、-う.け、う.かる	受かる (う.かる), 受ける (う.ける)
795	impart	Thụ (truyền thụ)	授	impart, finger, fingers, accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch	11	23	Fingers . . . accept.		This character depicts a student and teacher. The teacher imparts his knowledge on the student, pointing the way and guiding with the finger. Meanwhile, the student sits there passively accepting the tutelage of his superior.	Please accept this finger, you say, imparting it to your yakuza boss.	5	1	ジュ	さず.ける、さず.かる	授かる (さず.かる), 授ける (さず.ける)
796	love	Ái	愛	love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs	13	23	Birdhouse . . . heart . . . walking legs.		"If you really love someone, you won´t keep them in a cage-like bird house relationship, but rather open the door and let their heart walk around freely. Think less about ""I"" (あい) and more about ""we""."	The man is about to enter the ´birdhouse´ (brothel) when he remembers his true love at home, and, following his heart, uses his walking legs to go straight home.	4	3	アイ	いと.しい	
798	pay	Phất (trả tiền)	払	pay, finger, fingers, elbow	5	23	Finger . . . elbow.		You´re at a restaurant and raise your finger to indicate to the waiter that you want to pay. Your friend elbows you in the ribs -- it´s his shout, and he insists on taking care of the bill.	"You are walking out of the restaurant when the waiter uses his FINGERS to grab you at the ELBOW and says, ""excuse me sir, didn´t you forget to PAY?""."	JH	3	フツ、ヒツ、ホツ	はら.う、-はら.い、-ばら.い	払う (はら.う)
799	wide	Quảng (quảng trường)	広	wide, cave, elbow	5	23	Cave . . . elbow.		The Batcave is very wide and has a lot of elbow room for Batman to do his yoga.	"A wide cave has a lot of ""elbow room""."	2	4	コウ	ひろ.い、ひろ.まる、ひろ.める、ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる	広い (ひろ.い), 広がる (ひろ.がる), 広げる (ひろ.げる), 広まる (ひろ.まる), 広める (ひろ.める)
801	broaden	Khuếch	拡	broaden, finger, fingers, wide, cave, elbow	8	23	Fingers . . . wide. The connection with the previous character is very close. Beware.		Japanese girls are tight and may require fingers inserted to broaden them and make them wide enough before you can...	Spread your fingers wide to broaden your hand.	6	1	カク、コウ	ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる、ひろ.める	
802	mineral	Khoáng	鉱	mineral, metal, gold, wide, cave, elbow	13	23	Metal . . . wide.		Elbonium: a new mineral found in wide caves shaped like elbows and made of metal.	A wide range of metals are classed as minerals.	5	2	コウ	あらがね	
803	valve	Biện	弁	valve, elbow, two hands	5	23	Elbow . . . two hands.		Opening a stuck valve requires 2 hands and a lot of elbow grease.	The cubans build a pipe to flood the USA. Castro just has to turn the valve on it, and USA is flooded. Suddenly, CIA agents tackle him from behind, grabbing both his arms. But Castro manages to open the valve with his elbow, by raising the elbow above his head. Success! USA is no more...	5	1	ベン、ヘン	わきま.える、わ.ける、はなびら、あらそ.う	
804	male	Hùng (con đực, anh hùng)	雄	masculine, Yamanote, by one’s side, elbow, turkey	12	23	By one's side . . . elbow . . . turkey. Its match is in frame 605.		Men walk with their elbows out from their sides in a weird turkey trot when they try to appear very MASCULINE. Think of a 70´s pimp walk.	Masculine duties are to offer your elbow to the lady by your left side and to cut the turkey on special meals.	JH	1	ユウ	お-、おす、おん	雄 (お), 雄 (おす)
805	pedestal	Đài	台	pedestal, elbow, mouth	5	23	Elbow . . . mouth.		When someone´s elbow is above your mouth he/she is probably standing on a pedestal.	"After training your whole life, you manage to get a bronze medal in the Olympics. You´re extremely proud of your accomplishment as you step up to receive your medal. The guy in first place is up on a pedestal, towering above you, his elbow level with your mouth. Being a smug bastard, he ""accidentally"" knocks his elbow into your mouth, causing you to bleed and lose a tooth. Just cause he won the gold doesn´t mean he can place himself on such a high pedestal and do whatever he wants!"	2	4	ダイ、タイ	うてな、われ、つかさ	台地 (だいち), 灯台 (とうだい), 一台 (いちだい)
806	neglect	Đãi	怠	neglect, pedestal, elbow, mouth, heart	9	23	Pedestal . . . heart.		While standing on the pedestal at the award ceremony, the recipient heartlessly neglected to mention the people that got him there.	Someone you put on a pedestal will NEGLECT your heart.	JH	1	タイ	おこた.る、なま.ける	怠る (おこた.る), 怠ける (なま.ける)
807	reign	Trị	治	reign, water, water droplets, water pistol, pedestal, elbow, mouth	8	23	Water . . . pedestal.		From his water pedestal Neptune reigns over his Sea Empire.	Build a moat around your pedestal to protect your reign of power.	4	3	ジ、チ	おさ.める、おさ.まる、なお.る、なお.す	政治 (せいじ), 療治 (りょうじ), 治まる (おさ.まる), 治める (おさ.める), 治す (なお.す), 治る (なお.る)
809	commence	Thuỷ (ban đầu)	始	commence, woman, pedestal, elbow, mouth	8	23	Woman . . . pedestal.		Many men, before they commence their relationship with the woman of their desires, place her on something of a pedestal, which often leads to disappointment later on.	If you want to commence a relationship, just put a woman on a pedestal and she´ll love ya forever.	3	4	シ	はじ.める、-はじ.める、はじ.まる	始まる (はじ.まる), 始める (はじ.める)
810	womb	Thai	胎	womb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, pedestal, elbow, mouth	9	23	Part of the body . . . pedestal.		"The body part feminists like to put on a pedestal is the womb, especially when they hear a man complain about some responsibility. ""We give birth, so it´s your duty to do so-and-so""."	If any body part deserves to be put on a pedestal, it is the womb from which new life springs forth.	JH	1	タイ		
811	window	Song (cửa sổ)	窓	window, hole, house, human legs, elbow, heart	11	23	House . . . human legs . . . elbow . . . heart.		The top primitive is similar to hole (#1316). A window is a hole (#1316) in your house that you occassionally sit next to while leaning on your ELBOW and gazing out, a picture of a lonely HEARTedness.	"Anna stood inside the house 宀 on her human legs 儿 enjoying some private 厶 time, looking out the window and communing with the feelings that were in her heart 心. The first five strokes are actually 穴、あな, ""hole,"" introduced later. 窓、まど, window; 窓口、まどぐち, ticket window; 車窓、しゃそう, car window."	6	3	ソウ、ス	まど、てんまど、けむだし	窓 (まど)
812	gone	Khứ	去	gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow	5	23	Soil . . . elbow.		Going, going, GONE!, said the gravedigger as he shoveled soil onto the body´s protruding elbow (the last bit left to cover).	If you want the soil stains gone from your clothes, then you´ll need to put some elbow grease into cleaning them.	3	4	キョ、コ	さ.る、-さ.る	去年 (きょねん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 除去 (じょきょ), 去る (さ.る)
813	method	Pháp	法	method, water, water droplets, water pistol, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow	8	23	Water . . . gone.		This kanji shows up in a lot of words related to the legal process. Try this image: using a very outdated judicial method, the people of Salem dunked accused witches in the water until they were all gone.	There already was a system (#418) for butchering cows, a technique (#421) for turning smoke into flowers - why can´t there be a method of about the same relevance for making water gone? Evaporation anyone?	4	3	ホウ、ハッ、ホッ、フラン	のり	法律 (ほうりつ), 文法 (ぶんぽう), 方法 (ほうほう), 法度 (ほうど)
814	meeting	Hội (hội họp)	会	meeting, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	6	23	Meeting . . . wall. This is the full character for meeting, from which the abbreviated primitive that we met back in lesson 12 gets its name.		At the local company they have a very gory way of getting rid of incompetent personnel : they arrange a business meeting in a very special room where the walls are ... meeting. Not surprisingly the boss is never present at these meetings, he´s the one who pushes the button that sets the walls in motion.	The only thing created in most meetings is a lot of hot air. Imagine a cloud of it rising to the roof.	2	4	カイ、エ	あ.う、あ.わせる、あつ.まる	会話 (かいわ), 会計 (かいけい), 社会 (しゃかい), 会う (あ.う)
815	climax	Chí (đến)	至	climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground	6	23	Wall . . . soil. The key word allows for the full variety of connotations: to peak, to arrive at the end, and the like.		Sexual climaxes don´t always happen on the bed; they sometimes happen against a wall or on the ground!	The climax of the Berlin Wall affair was the tearing of it to ground.	6	1	シ	いた.る	至る (いた.る)
816	room	Thất	室	room, house, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground	9	23	House . . . climax.		"You book a room in a love hotel called ""Climax House""."	A simple room is made up of a roof, some walls, and a dirt floor.	2	4	シツ	むろ	室 (むろ)
817	arrival	Đáo (đến nơi)	到	arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber	8	23	Climax . . . saber.		Http://img168.imageshack.us/img168/7731/karatesd3.jpg Just look at this image...	Just as we were about to climax her father arrived with a sword.	JH	3	トウ	いた.る	
818	doth	Trí (trí lực)	致	doth, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, taskmaster	10	23	"The archaic English form for ""does"" indicates a humble form of the verb ""to do."" It is made up of climax and taskmaster."		To reach climax I doth the bidding of my dominatrix taskmaster.	"This character is used in two very high-frequency words: ""you are welcome"" (どう致しまして) and the honorific form of onegaishimasu (お願い致します; おねがいいたします). Can´t you just picture this ridiculously polite S&M picture? A businessman, who DOTH the bidding of his taskmistress, is climaxing and yelling out ""お願い致します"" while she whips and says ""どう致しまして"". (This kanji also means ""to bring about"" and ""do humbly"", which is perfect for this image)."	JH	1	チ	いた.す	致す (いた.す)
819	mutually	Hỗ (tương hỗ)	互	mutually, one, ceiling, one, floor	4	23	When you draw this character think of linking two walls together, one right side up and the other upside down.		The 69 position allows both parties to mutually give themselves pleasure.	If you can combined your walls with another house´s walls, both houses would mutually benefit, by the increase in size....	JH	3	ゴ	たが.い、かたみ.に	互い (たが.い)
820	abandon	Khí (từ bỏ)	棄	abandon, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, buckle, tree, wood	13	23	Infant . . . buckle (See frame 444) . . . tree.		Think of a really loud and annoying baby, you want to abandon it but it keeps coming back...so you take of your belt by the buckle, and buckle the baby to a tree!	As in sash (#415), I treat the one mountain in the middle to mean Mt. Fuji (Japan´s ichiban mountain). Now we see an infant being abandoned on top of Mt. Fuji well above the tree line to die of exposure.	JH	1	キ	す.てる	
821	bring up	Dục (giáo dục)	育	bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	8	23	Since the key word has to do with raising children to be strong both in mind and body, it is easy to coordinate the primitive elements: infant . . . meat.		Bringing up your offspring means raising them from infant until they are meat ready to be harvested. What, cannibalism is in poor taste? Forget I ever brought it up. But bring up will forver be infant meat to me. I want my baby back baby back baby back ribs!	I will bring up my infants to eat meat. I´ll not endure any vegetarian children in my house!	3	3	イク	そだ.つ、そだ.ち、そだ.てる、はぐく.む	育つ (そだ.つ), 育てる (そだ.てる)
822	remove	Triệt	撤	remove, finger, fingers, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster	15	23	Fingers . . . bring up . . . taskmaster.		Don´t lay a finger on him, a concerned mother says as the state REMOVES her child away for upbringing by a taskmaster foster home.	A terrible yakuza taskmaster is bringing up his infant. Every time the infant does something wrong... well, you know what happens to yakuzas when they do something wrong.	JH	1	テツ		
823	allot	Sung (sung túc, bổ sung)	充	allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs	6	23	Infant . . . human legs.		"Scene at the baby factory: Manager: ""Good news! Your infant has been allotted human legs"". Parent to be: ""Thanks a lot!""."	In China, to prevent too many human legs walking around, couples are alloted only one infant…　RTK2:　ジュウ　補充　ほじゅう(supplement)…　Semi-Pure Group:　銃762　(ﾄｳ): 統1347.	JH	1	ジュウ	あ.てる、み.たす	充てる (あ.てる)
824	gun	Súng	銃	gun, metal, gold, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs	14	23	Metal . . . allot.		Everyone is allotted a metal gun (US constitution according to the NRA).	What is a gun but a device for allotting pieces of metal? One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...etc.	JH	1	ジュウ	つつ	
825	sulfur	Lưu	硫	sulphur, stone, rock, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood	12	23	Rock . . . infant . . . flood.		Sulphur is like a rock, but it can stink like a stream of infant doodie.	Infants are baptised in streams inorder to prevent their descent into a place of sulphur and brimstone.	JH	1	リュウ		
826	current	Lưu (hạ lưu, lưu hành)	流	current, water, water droplets, water pistol, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood	10	23	Water . . . infant . . . flood. Be sure to distinguish the two water primitives from one another in making your story.		INFANT Moses placed in the WATER and sent down the current of the STREAM.	A water-breathing infant (genetically modified?) is caught in a flood, and drifts with the current, apparently enjoying himself in the process.	3	3	リュウ、ル	なが.れる、なが.れ、なが.す、-なが.す	流行 (りゅうこう), 流動 (りゅうどう), 電流 (でんりゅう), 流す (なが.す), 流れる (なが.れる)
827	license	Doãn (thành thực, ưng thuận)	允	license, elbow, human legs	4	23	Elbow . . . human legs.		In some Asian kung-fu version of James Bond, the main protagonist has a “License To Kill” with his deadly elbows and human legs. His suit is always stained of red blood at the elbows and lower legs (this to help create an image that distinguish the two elements).	A midget driver trying to pass the road test to get their driver´s license. Their elbows are too short to turn the wheel and their legs are too short to reach the gas and breaks.	Names	1	イン	じょう、まこと.に、ゆるす	
828	tempt	Toa (xúi dục)	唆	tempt, mouth, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs	10	23	Mouth . . . license . . . walking legs.		I named the right part legal prostitute has it represents a walker [walking legs] with the license. It´s easy to imagine a legal prostitute tempting a man with her mouth.	Prostitutes in Amsterdam have a license to show off their walking legs and tempt customers with their mouths.	JH	1	サ	そそのか.す	唆す (そそのか.す)
829	exit	Xuất	出	exit	5	24	The kanji for exit pictures a series of mountain peaks coming out of the earth. Learn it together with the following frame.		Suddenly, a cactus comes out of the ground with a sign that reads: exit. Now you can leave the desert! (Note: giving this primitive the meaning ´cactus´ can be useful later).	The exit lays between these two mountains.	1	5	シュツ、スイ	で.る、-で、だ.す、-だ.す、い.でる、い.だす	出入 (しゅつにゅう), 出現 (しゅつげん), 提出 (ていしゅつ), 出す (だ.す), 出る (で.る)
830	mountain	San, sơn	山	mountain	3	24	Note the clearer outline of a triangular mountain here.		Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive this element appears equally as well at the top or bottom of the kanjis (besides appearing to the left). Since a mountain often brings to mind towering peaks, I will consider it implied that the element is placed at the top of the kanji. When this primitive appears at the bottom, I will arrange my story in a way that other elements are said to be at the very top of the mountain (see FRAME 775 for an example).	YOU CAN´T POSSIBLY NEED A MNEMONIC FOR THIS!!!!	1	5	サン、セン	やま	山 (やま)
831	bungling	Chuyết (vụng về, dờ)	拙	bungling, finger, fingers, exit	8	24	Fingers . . . exit.		With fingers fumbling around trying to get the key in the door so he could exit, the bungling husband woke his wife as he tried to leave for a rendezvous with his mistress.	Horror movie cliche 769: Bungling victim´s fingers fumble & bungle trying to open the exit door.	JH	1	セツ	つたな.い	
832	boulder	Nham (đá tảng, nham thạch)	岩	boulder, mountain, stone, rock	8	24	Mountain . . . rock.		A mountain-sized stone is known as a boulder.	Here we see mountain rocks rolling down the mountain, gathering into a single monstrous boulder crushing everything in its path. Think snowball effect, even if it wouldn´t work with rocks.	2	2	ガン	いわ	岩 (いわ)
833	charcoal	Thán (than)	炭	charcoal, mountain, ashes, cliff, fire	9	24	Mountain . . . ashes.		Burn enough charcoal and you´ll have a mountain of ash.	"You get charcoal from volcano (""fire mountain"", 火山) ashes."	3	2	タン	すみ	炭 (すみ)
834	branch off	Kì (đường núi, đường rẽ)	岐	branch off, mountain, branch, ten, needle, crotch	7	24	Mountains . . . branch.		On the left, there are three mountains. The road branches off to each of them. (Note: This kanji is mostly used for branches in the road).	In a lot of Super Nintendo-era RPGs, there are mountain levels to get through. You view them from overhead, so you can see a mazelike path with many branches. Picture your sprite characters at one such fork in the mountain path, as it branches off in two directions.	JH	1	キ、ギ		
835	mountain pass	Đèo	峠	mountain peak, mountain, above, below	9	24	Mountain . . . above . . . below.		Heisig mentions at kanjiclinic.com that he wishes he´d chosen mountain pass for this keyword as it´s closer to what the word means. If we do this, the kanji makes complete sense because a mountain pass is just below the mountain top.	"To the north of Lorien lies the Misty Mountains, and below their towering peaks are the Mines of Moria. The Fellowship of the Ring first tried for the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes above, but were halted by the wizardry of Saruman at Caradhras, and so are forced to take the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes below, through the mountain - a path long feared by Gandalf for the ancient evil that lurks there. Note : the kanji does in fact refer to a ""mountain pass""."	JH	1		とうげ	峠 (とうげ)
836	crumble	Băng (hỏng, mất, băng hoại, băng hà)	崩	crumble, mountain, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2	11	24	Mountain . . . companion.		Sam and Frodo were steadfast companions even as Mount Doom crumbled above them.	September 11. [lol it also has 11 strokes], whoever reported this story is a loser, get alife. This is the best story on the website.	JH	1	ホウ	くず.れる、-くず.れ、くず.す	崩す (くず.す), 崩れる (くず.れる)
837	secrecy	Mật	密	secrecy, house, invariably, heart, mountain	11	24	House . . . invariably . . . mountain.		To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves in the moutains.	To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves on top of the moutains. (Slight tweak of chamcham´s story, using fuaburisa´s idea for remembering where to put the mountain primitive.).	6	1	ミツ	ひそ.か	
838	honey	Mật	蜜	honey, house, invariably, heart, insect	12	24	House . . . invariably . . . insect.		When I think of honey, I think of a bee hive, which is a HOUSE that INVARIABLY has INSECTS.	A house with a lot of honey will invariably attract many insects.	JH		ミツ、ビツ		
839	storm	Lam (hơi núi, bão tố)	嵐	storm, mountain, wind, gnats, drop, insect	12	24	Mountain . . . winds.		Storm is a full-blown wind that rips the mountains off the ground (you see one flying here).	Winds are gathering at the base of the mountain (note the hint to primitive placement), going up, and turning into a huge mountain storm.	JH	1	ラン	あらし	嵐 (あらし)
840	promontory	Kỳ (mũi đất)	崎	promontory, mountain, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth	11	24	Mountain . . . strange. Hint: you might save yourself the trouble of a story here simply by recalling the kanji for cape (Frame 164) and toying around with the differing images suggested by the key words promontory and cape.		This is “Cape Strange” from FRAME 153, only with mountain in place of soil. Interestingly, there is also 碕 which is made of the primitives stone and strange. The three kanjis 碕, 埼 and 崎 all have the same meanings and pronunciations. They have very little uses other than names, for which promontory is the clear winner with over 2300 uses in place and people names, while the other two kanjis account for less than 200 names.	A promontory is a small, strange mountain that juts out into the sea.	JH	1	キ	さき、さい、みさき	崎 (さき)
842	enter	Nhập	入	enter	2	24	"This character is meant to be a picture of someone walking leftwards, putting one leg forward in order to enter someplace. Since the ""in"" side of a character is the left, it should be easy to remember the writing of this character."	* As a primitive, the meaning of the key word is expanded to include: to go in, to put in, to come in, and the like. It generally appears atop its relative primitive, where, unlike the element for umbrella, the two strokes do not touch each other, making it virtually the same as the kanji for eight. When it appears in any other position, however, it retains its original form.	Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive, using the image of going through a door, even one that stands alone with the frame and no wall around, helps flesh out the primitive “enter”.	Person enters stage left…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ニュウ　入院　にゅういん(admittance into a hospital).	1	5	ニュウ、ジュ	い.る、-い.る、-い.り、い.れる、-い.れ、はい.る	入る (い.る), 入れる (い.れる), 入る (はい.る)
843	crowded	Nhập (chen chúc)	込	crowded, enter, road	5	24	Enter . . . road.		During a traffic jam it is impossible to get your car to enter the roadway as it is crowded with cars. Think of a grid lock so bad cars are litterally scraping up against each other like people on a Japanese train during rush hour.	Everybody tries to enter the road during rush hour. That´s why it´s so crowded.	JH	3		こ.み、 -こ.み、 -こ.む、 こ.む、 こ.める	込む (こ.む), 込める (こ.める)
844	part	Phân (chia ra)	分	part, eight, sword, dagger	4	24	Go in . . . dagger.		When something is entered by a dagger, it ends up being cut in several parts.	"(This kanji also has the meanings of ""understand"" and ""minute""). It´s important to understand that were you to enter an hour with a dagger and cut it into parts, those parts would be minutes."	2		ブン、フン、ブ	わ.ける、わ.け、わ.かれる、わ.かる、わ.かつ	分解 (ぶんかい), 自分 (じぶん), 水分 (すいぶん), 分別 (ふんべつ), 分銅 (ふんどう), 三十分 (さんじゅうふん), 分かつ (わ.かつ), 分かる (わ.かる), 分かれる (わ.かれる), 分ける (わ.ける)
845	poverty	Bần (bần cùng)	貧	poverty, part, eight, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	24	Part . . . shells/money.		In the case of true poverty, not having money is only part of the problem. There are other components as well, like lack of education, class structuring, etc., but that doesn´t really matter. Just remember that the money is only part of it, not the whole.	Parting with your money will lead to poverty.	5	3	ヒン、ビン	まず.しい	貧富 (ひんぷ), 貧弱 (ひんじゃく), 清貧 (せいひん), 貧しい (まず.しい)
846	partition	Ban (ban bố)	頒	partition, part, eight, sword, dagger, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	24	Part . . . head.		The PART of my HEAD where I remember the KANJI is in the kanji PARTITION.	The last time I tried to partition a hard drive under Linux, I got a severe migraine that parted my head.	JH	1	ハン	わか.つ	
847	public	Công	公	public, eight, elbow	4	24	Come in . . . elbows. Use the key word in its adjectival sense, not as a noun.		I always open the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands.	I always enter the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands.	2	4	コウ、ク	おおやけ	公 (おおやけ)
848	pine tree	Tùng (cây tùng, cây thông)	松	pine tree, tree, wood, public, eight, elbows	8	24	Tree . . . public.		"Following up with the ""entering public restrooms"" story for the right-hand primitive: public restrooms always reek of pine tree scented disinfectant."	A pine tree is a public tree: they are frequently planted in public squares, in commemoration of the respect Conficius held for them.	4	1	ショウ	まつ	松 (まつ)
849	venerable old man	Ông	翁	venerable old man, public, eight, elbows, feathers, wings	10	24	Public . . . feathers.		The venerable old man is the public figure head of the Native American Village, answering all questions and solving all problems. The higher in rank you get in this tribe, the more feathers decorate you. Imagine this old man covered in beautiful feathers.	The venerable old man is using the public restroom in the park where he feeds the pigeons. But, alas, there is no toilet paper! So, he´s caught a pigeon and is using it to wipe his bottom. (note the feathers on the bottom of the kanji, this helps remember placement). Can you see the feathers flying everywhere?	JH	1	オウ	おきな	
850	sue	Tụng (tố tụng)	訟	sue, say, words, keitai, mouth, public, eight, elbows	11	24	Words . . . public.		Take care what words you say in public lest you be sued.	[+radical_tyro] Socrates was giving a speech in public. Things were going rather well, until his robe opened a bit and people saw his, well, not-public area. He was promptly sued for public indecency. Certain things shouldn´t be made public in public, you know?	JH	1	ショウ		
851	valley	Cốc (thung lũng)	谷	valley, eight, umbrella, mouth	7	24	Go in . . . an umbrella . . . a mouth. Because of space restrictions, the element for go in is shortened in this character. If you stand on your head and look at this kanji, the image of a valley stands out more clearly: the mouth of the river whose water flows down at the intersection of the two mountains, with the final two strokes adding the element of perspective. Now get back on your feet again and see if the image still remains clear. If not, then return to the primitives and make a story in the usual way.		This could be seen as a very accurate pictograph of another type of valley: a valley mouth open under the umbrella of inner labia, with the outer labia parted above. There are even more connections to be made among the primitive keywords and the visuals, but i will enter no further...	Think of the classic anime 風の谷のナウシカ (Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind). We see Nausicaa entering the valley mouth gliding on an umbrella.	2	2	コク	たに、きわ.まる	谷 (たに)
852	bathe	Dục (tắm)	浴	bathe, water, water droplets, water pistol, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth	10	24	Water . . . valley.		This story is quite lascivious, sorry... Now, imagine you are at a 混浴　（こんよく） [two kanjis we now know] Onsen (温泉), and you are watching a woman bathe. Just picture the water dripping down her cleavage (that valley in between her breasts). Note: cleavage in Japanese is 谷間.	The mountain man uses the water from the valley to bathe.	4	2	ヨク	あ.びる、あ.びせる	浴びせる (あ.びせる), 浴びる (あ.びる)
853	contain	Dung (dung mạo, nội dung)	容	contain, house, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth	10	24	This character depicts a house so large that it can contain an entire valley.		Imagine a house big enough to contain an entire valley. might want to live there. And now imagine cleaning it. . . . Maybe not . . .	Biodome.	5	3	ヨウ	い.れる	
854	melt	Dung (dung dịch)	溶	melt, water, water droplets, water pistol, contents, contain, house, valley, animal legs, eight, umbrella, mouth	13	24	Water . . . contain.		Think of what happens when the snow on top of the mountains melts: it turns into water and flows down onto the rooftops of all the houses in the valley below.	[melt; dissolve; thaw] An ice cube is melting, loosing the water it contained.	JH	2	ヨウ	と.ける、と.かす、と.く	溶かす (と.かす), 溶く (と.く), 溶ける (と.ける)
855	longing	Dục (dục vọng, ham muốn)	欲	longing, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth, lack, yawn	11	24	Valley . . . yawn. Be sure to keep the key word distinct from pining (Frame 683).		Guess what? Japanese has dirty words too! (In fact, a lot of them) A sexual story is NOT inappropriate here, as this kanji is very sexual, such as in 性欲; lust. As for a story: the lack of contact with a woman´s valley will leave a man LONGING for love.	The valley has something my life is lacking.... something I´ve been longing for.. peace and quiet.	6	3	ヨク	ほっ.する、ほ.しい	欲しい (ほ.しい), 欲する (ほっ.する)
856	abundant	Dụ (giàu sang)	裕	abundant, cloak, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth	12	24	This character shows the typical cloak of valley folk, which, unlike the tailor-made, high-fashion overcoats of city folk, is loose-fitting and free-form. Hence the key word's meaning of abundant.		"Again using the fact that cleavage in Japanese is called ""valley of the chest"": a woman with abundant cleavage tightly wraps up her bosom in a form-fitting cloak, but leaving her valley exposed. Another unforgettable image (thank you, thank you, I´ll be here all week)."	Welcome to cloak-valley, the valley where everyone wears cloaks and every shop sells cloaks. Mnemonic : “cloaks are abundant in the valley”.	JH	1	ユウ		
857	lead (metal)	Duyên (chì)	鉛	lead, metal, gold, gully, eight, mouth	13	24	Metal . . . gully.		Picture the molten lead (the heavy metal) being discreetly drained out of the factory into a gully behind.	Lead -> Dental fillings -> Metal that enters the mouth to fill a hole in a tooth.	JH	1	エン	なまり	鉛 (なまり)
858	run alongside	Duyên (ven, dọc theo)	沿	run alongside, water, water droplets, water pistol, gully, eight, mouth	8	24	Water . . . gully. The key word is meant to refer to things like rivers and railway tracks that run alongside something else.		Water in a gully runs alongside the path.	Picture one of those idiots that run alongside the bicyclists in the Tour de France trying to give them water. Watch as the cyclist shoves the person into a gully that runs alongside the road.	6	1	エン	そ.う、-ぞ.い	沿う (そ.う)
859	prize	Thưởng	賞	prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	15	25	Outhouse . . . shellfish.		This is a bit silly.. or maybe not only a bit, but.. You know some foodstuffs (cereals come to mind) sometimes have prizes mixed in them? Well, in this case, the prize was a shell (money, remember) and you only notice in the outhouse... (see also secret (#904)).	As a prize for being the 1,000,000th person to use the restaurant´s outhouse, I got all the clams I could eat.	4	2	ショウ	ほ.める	
860	party	Đảng	党	party, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, human legs	10	25	Think of this key word as referring to a political party, not a gala affair. Its elements: human legs . . . sticking out of an outhouse window.		Every major political party, if personified, would look like a giant outhouse walking around with human legs spewing out a constant stream of bullshit.	Every political party is full of shit. But nobody ever says how they get that way. Well, here´s your answer - a political party memer is in the outhouse, greedily chowing down on the contents inside. He´s grown so accustomed to the taste that he´s in all the way, and all you can see are his legs through the window. He´ll come inside later to the auditorium to make a speech and spew everything out.	6	2	トウ	なかま、むら	
861	hall	Đường ( thực đường, thiên đường)	堂	public chamber, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, soil, dirt, ground	11	25	Outhouse . . . land.		There is a secret hall buried in the soil underneath the outhouse.	In most communities you will be hauled into city hall if you use the ground as an outhouse.	4	4	ドウ		
862	usual	Thường	常	usual, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, towel	11	25	Outhouse . . . towel.		It´s usual to take your towel with you when you go to the outhouse at the onsen (hot springs bath in Japan) so everybody doesn´t see your stuff.	In the outhouse toilet you´d usually hope to find toilet paper to wipe your ass. If it´s already gone, which is usually the case, simply use the towel.	5	3	ジョウ	つね、とこ-	常 (つね), 常 (とこ)
863	skirt	Thường (váy dài)	裳	skirt, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	14	25	The key word refers to an ancient skirt once used as part of a woman's costume. The primitives you have to work with are: outhouse . . . garment.		Compared to pants, a SKIRT is the GARMENT to be wearing when you want to use one of those Japanese toilets. It makes it so much easier: you just walk in the OUTHOUSE hike it up, and do your business.	"Haven´t you ever noticed that the men / women signs on the front of outhouses are sometimes very similar? The silhouettes are usually the same, but one will decidedly be wearing a garment in the shape of a SKIRT. Also, we´ve already learned the kanji for ""woman"", so if the signs are only in kanji you have no right to wander in and claim ignorance, perv!"	Names		ショウ	も、もすそ	
864	manipulate	Chưởng (lòng bàn tay)	掌	manipulate, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, hand	12	25	Outhouse . . . hand.		If you´re going to manipulate your body with your hand, then go do it in an outhouse, at least!	Instead of magazines, we keep a Rubiks Cube in the outhouse to manipulate with your hands while you do your business.	JH	1	ショウ	てのひら、たなごころ	
865	pelt	Bì (da)	皮	pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	5	25	"The simplest way to remember this character is to see it as built up from that for branch. The first stroke can then stand for something ""hanging"" down from the branch, namely its bark or pelt. The barb at the end of the second stroke is the only other change. Merely by concentrating on this as you write the following small cluster of characters should be enough to fix the form in your mind. By way of exception, you might doodle around with the kanji's form to see what you can come up with."		A pelt is hooked on a branch. A small tent is made with a pelt and a branch planted in the ground. The mnemonic hints at the first stroke (the hanging pelt) and the hook at the end of the second stroke. This is chinese radical #107 meaning “skin”.	"To be honest, this is one of those cases where I have found it easier to ""just remember it"" as a radical, as it occurs so frequently: 彼（かれ him）波（なみ wave）and so on."	3	2	ヒ	かわ、けがわ	皮 (かわ)
866	waves	Ba (sóng, phong ba)	波	waves, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	8	25	Water's . . . pelt.		Waves are the ocean´s pelt (skin).	The Inuit used water-proof seal pelts for their kayaks, to travel the waves.	3	2	ハ	なみ	波 (なみ)
867	old woman	Bà	婆	old woman, wave, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook, woman	11	25	Waves . . . woman.		An old woman is seen here as a woman with waves (i.e. wrinkles, creases).	"You know ""The Old Man and the Sea."" Well, this is the sequel, ""The Old Woman and the Sea Waves.""."	JH	1	バ	ばば、ばあ	
868	expose	Phi (mở ra)	披	expose, finger, fingers, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	8	25	Fingers . . . pelt.		You expose holes in a pelt by passing your fingers through them and wiggling them on the other side. The sense of the kanji here is to reveal something that was hidden, to make known, to open your heart (thus revealing it, exposing it to others), express your opinion, etc.	Think of it in this vulgar way. You really want her to expose her “beaver” pelt, so you have to encourage her with your fingers to expose it.	JH	1	ヒ		
869	rend	Phá	破	rend, stone, rock, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	10	25	Rock . . . pelt.		Before the invention of scissors or knives, sharp STONES were used to REND PELTs, so that caveman designers could complete new styles for the upcoming year.	Rend is a violent, primitive kind of word. (Image: cavemen rending pelts right off live animals with stone tools).	5	3	ハ	やぶ.る、やぶ.れる	破る (やぶ.る), 破れる (やぶ.れる)
870	incur	Bị	被	incur, cloak, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	10	25	Cloak . . . pelt.		If you wear a coat of fur (pelt) you are sure to incur the wrath of animal rights extremists.	A cloak of fur (pelt) will incur the wrath of animal lovers.	JH	2	ヒ	こうむ.る、おお.う、かぶ.る、かぶ.せる	被る (こうむ.る)
871	remainder	Tàn (tàn dư)	残	remainder, bones, one, ceiling, evening, float	10	25	Bones . . . (parade) float.		The remainder of the bones have been thrown from the float (for the dogs maybe, at the end of the parade).	Throwing all those coins (see coin (#368)) was a really bad idea; people got mad with greed. The only remainders left were the bones of those that was on the float.	4	3	ザン、サン	のこ.る、のこ.す、そこな.う、のこ.り	残す (のこ.す), 残る (のこ.る)
872	martyrdom	Tuân (chết vì đạo)	殉	martyrdom, bones, one, ceiling, evening, decameron, bound up, sun, day	10	25	Bones . . . decameron.		Think of the early Christian martyrs who suffered martyrdom because of their faith. See them held in cells for 10 days (a decameron) before being fed to the lions. They appear before the chanting Roman crowds as bones to be devoured. Think of what was leftover after the lions finished them off....nothing, not even a pile of bones to bury.	The boney man martyred himself during his 10 day hunger-strike.	JH	1	ジュン		
873	particularly	Thù (đặc thù)	殊	particularly, bones, one, ceiling, evening, vermilion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood	10	25	Bones . . . vermilion.		A t-bone steak is vermilion - particularly if served rare.	Castlevania -- The vermillion skeletons (bones) are particularly hard because they just keep regenerating.	JH	1	シュ	こと	殊 (こと)
874	augment	Thực (sinh sản, sinh)	殖	augment, bones, one, ceiling, evening, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook	12	25	Bones . . . straightaway.		Advertisement for Breast Implants -- Tired of nights all alone? Want to get boned straightaway? AUGMENT your breasts and all your troubles will be solved!	In the movie “Gattaca”, Vincent Freeman (played by Ethan Hawke) augments his size by straightening his bones (his legs), in order to match up with the genetically “perfect” population, and reach his goal of travelling in space. The stretching of his lower leg bones involved multiplying the bone cells, another sense of this key word.	JH	1	ショク	ふ.える、ふ.やす	殖える (ふ.える), 殖やす (ふ.やす)
875	file	Liệt (la liệt, hàng lối)	列	file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber	6	25	Bones . . . saber. The sense of the key word is of people or things lined up in a row.		A line of skeletal warriors, all armed with sabers.	Skeleton army rank and file. Dudes made of bones carrying sabres.	3	3	レツ、レ		
876	split	Liệt (rách)	裂	split, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	12	25	File . . . garment.		They tried issuing the skeleton warriors with proper garments to wear, but they kept getting split by the sharp bones or by their sabres. In the end, it was decided they look scarier naked anyway.	Someone takes a sword made of bone to split the garment right down the middle. Very effective.	JH	1	レツ	さ.く、さ.ける、-ぎ.れ	裂く (さ.く), 裂ける (さ.ける)
877	ardent	Liệt (mãnh liệt, cháy dữ)	烈	ardent, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue	10	25	File . . . oven fire.		The nazis were ardent believers in the master arian race, see them marching everyone else into the oven fires, single file.	The undead, marching single file, prove how ardent they are be walking across a field of flame. Fun fact, ardent used to mean to burn.	JH	1	レツ	はげ.しい	
878	death	Tử	死	death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground	6	25	"Bones . . . spoon. Note how the first stroke is extended to the right, forming a sort of ""roof"" overhead."		Ok, this is where knowing some Eastern culture comes in handy! In Japanese society, when someone dies they creamate the body and pick out the remaining bones with special chopsticks. In this case, they´re out of chopsticks so they decide to use (gasp!) a spoon instead.	Imagine the grim reaper (the bringer of death), carrying a spoon made of human bones instead of a scythe.	3	4	シ	し.ぬ、し.に-	死ぬ (し.ぬ)
879	interment	Táng (an táng, chôn)	葬	interment, flowers, death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground, two hands	12	25	Flowers . . . death . . . two hands. Do not confuse with bury (Frame 191).		I imagine an interment as a funeral. At this funeral it´s an open casket, and the dead body (death) is holding flowers with both of its hands.	During the interment ceremony, the grandchildren placed flowers over the dead body while the widow sat praying with two hands.	JH	1	ソウ	ほうむ.る	葬る (ほうむ.る)
880	wink	Thuấn (trong nháy mắt, nháy mắt)	瞬	wink, eye, Rose of Sharon, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening	18	25	Eye . . . birdhouse . . . sunglasses.		Imagine Snoopy winking with his big eyes (and a happy smile) standing next to Woodstocks Birdhouse, woodstock being so cool that he wears little sunglasses.	What a dilemna, you wore SUNGLASSES over your EYES when you went to the BIRDHOUSE so you wouldn´t be recognized - but now you can´t WINK at the girl you want!	JH	1	シュン	またた.く、まじろ.ぐ	瞬く (またた.く)
881	ear	Nhĩ	耳	ear	6	25	The pictograph for the ear looks much like that for eye, but note how the stroke order gives it a different look.		Your ear is like the eye on the side of your head for seeing things, but there is hair around it that creates jagged lines.	Pictograph, see book. * The primitive meaning can easily be extended to ear plugs.	1	3	ジ	みみ	耳 (みみ)
882	take	Thủ (lấy, nhận)	取	take, ear, crotch	8	25	Ear . . . crotch.		"You put your ear next to a womans crotch...and somehow, from it, you hear the words ""Take me....""."	Fuaburisu´s with a twist: You know that classic trick where someone pretends to take something out of an someone else´s ear (such as a coin). Instead of a cigarette or a pen he pulls the person’s crotch out of their ear. Very painful!	3	3	シュ	と.る、と.り、と.り-、とり、-ど.り	取る (と.る)
883	gist	Thú (hứng thú, thú vị)	趣	gist, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, take, ear, crotch	15	25	Run . . . take.		The gist of it is this: We take the money and run!	Pickpocket advice: It´s simple, FIRST run, then take. Yeah, that´s the gist of it!	JH	1	シュ	おもむき、おもむ.く	趣 (おもむき)
884	utmost	Tối (nhất, tối cao)	最	utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch	12	25	Sun . . . take.		TAKE the UTMOST care when you SUN bath all DAY, or you´ll get burned from your EARS to your CROTCH.	Do your utmost - seize(take) the day.	4	3	サイ、シュ	もっと.も、つま	最も (もっと.も)
885	snapshot	Toát (chụp ảnh)	撮	snapshot, finger, fingers, utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch	15	25	"Finger . . . utmost. This character is used for taking photographs. Note how, conveniently, the element for ""take"" is included in it."		Take the utmost care that you don´t have your finger in the way when you take a snapshot.	"When I learned photography from my dad as a little girl, he explained the basics to me: ""when you take a snapshot, be careful not to put your fingers before the lens, and don´t look towards the sun (this was in the days that photographs would be spoiled by direct sunlight)."	JH	1	サツ	と.る、つま.む、-ど.り	撮る (と.る)
886	shame	Sỉ (xấu hổ, sỉ nhục)	恥	shame, ear, heart	10	25	Ear . . . heart. It is most rare to have the heart at the right, rather than at the bottom. Take advantage of this fact when you compose your story.		Amelia Ear-Heart (sic) brought shame to those who said women couldn´t fly.	Vincent Van Gogh´s greatest shame was cutting off his ear to win the heart of a woman.	JH	3	チ	は.じる、はじ、は.じらう、は.ずかしい	恥じらう (は.じらう), 恥じる (は.じる), 恥ずかしい (は.ずかしい), 恥 (はじ)
887	post	Chức (chức vụ, từ chức)	職	post, ear, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta	18	25	The key word refers to one's occupation, or position of employment. Its elements: ear . . . kazoo.		Worst post in history: quality checker at the kazoo factory. Imagine the toll on your ears!	Buckingham Palace guards are famous for staying at their post no matter what, even if you blow a kazoo in their ear!	5	3	ショク、ソク		
888	holy	Thánh	聖	holy, ear, mouth, king, jewel, ball	13	25	Ear . . . mouth . . . king.		A holy man hears with his ears before he speaks with his mouth, which places him higher than a king in people's esteem.	The trick for me is to remember that the 耳 is to the left of the 口. However, this is easy because a true holy man uses his ear to listen (i.e., to God or his supplicant) before he opens his mouth to speak, unlike a charlatan who just makes something up. Of course, kings are often true holy men and prophets (e.g., King David in the bible).	6	1	セイ、ショウ	ひじり	
889	daring	Cảm (dám, dũng cảm)	敢	daring, street, nail, spike, ear, taskmaster	12	25	Spike . . . ear . . . taskmaster.		Only a truly daring Japanese student would wear a spike in his ear under the gaze of the Japanese teacher taskmasters!	See that ear nailed over there ? It´s the ear of the last person who was too daring with the taskmistress.	JH	1	カン	あ.えて、あ.えない、あ.えず	
890	listen	Thính (thính giả)	聴	listen, ear, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart	17	25	Ear . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Compare frame 427 for this and the following kanji, and then once again when you get to frame 950.		I promise to use my ear to do nothing but listen ... stick a needle in my eye, cross my heart and hope to die! (Intentionally said backwards to get the order of the primitives correct).	"Listening to others is different from hearing [1626] with the ear. One must allow the words to pierce through the eyes (the window of the soul) and reach deep into the heart...a symbol of thinking about and contemplating on what was said, not just the sounds of words spoken. A married man while reading his newspaper, his wife going on about something suddenly, says, ""You´re not listening to me, are you?"" He replies, ""I heard every word you said. You said..."" “Yes, but you´re not listening.""."	JH	1	チョウ、テイ	き.く、ゆる.す	聴く (き.く)
891	pocket	Hoài (hoài cổ, nhớ nhung)	懐	pocket, Freud, state of mind, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	16	25	State of mind . . . needle . . . eyes . . . garment.		"(re: taijuando) When you are in New York City you have to be alert, i.e. in the ""New York State of Mind"": you need ten eyes to make sure no one will go through your garments and pick your pockets."	"Imagine Darth Vader´s state of mind when he discovers his garment has not pockets. "" D O NOT WANT!""."	JH	1	カイ、エ	ふところ、なつ.かしい、なつ.かしむ、なつ.く、なつ.ける、なず.ける、いだ.く、おも.う	懐かしい (なつ.かしい), 懐かしむ (なつ.かしむ), 懐く (なつ.く), 懐ける (なつ.ける), 懐 (ふところ)
892	ridicule	Mạn (nhờn láo, khinh thường, ngạo mạn)	慢	ridicule, Freud, state of mind, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch	14	25	State of mind . . . mandala.		"I´ll focus on the mandala primitive here. I guess Heisig chose this keyword for phonetic reasons and as a character it´s the ""man"" in mandara/mandala (曼荼羅). A mandala is a graphic representation of the universe, here split in 3 planes of existance, the sun representing the cosmos, the eye represents the human observer, the crotch represents the animal instincts."	He´ s often ridiculed for having his eye on crotches all day.	JH	1	マン		
893	loose	Mạn (tản mạn, buông tuồng, ko biết tự kiềm chế)	漫	loose, water, water droplets, water pistol, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch	14	25	Water . . . mandala.		One obscure Tibetan sect-- the Otaku cult-- has an unusually loose interpretation of mandala drawing practice. Instead of traditional mandalas they draw mangas (漫画). They then pour water on the image to wash it away, and begin anew.	Even NELSON MANDALA dreams of drops of WATER glistening on comic book/ anime girls with LOOSE morals. (This story has been edited in response reports).	JH	1	マン	みがりに	
894	buy	Mãi (mua, khuyến mãi)	買	buy, eye, cross-eyed, net, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	25	Eye . . . shellfish.		When something catches my eye, I take out a few clams and buy before anybody else does.	Rules to Buying: 1. You´ve had your eye on it for a while. 2. You have enough shells to afford it.	2	4	バイ	か.う	買う (か.う)
895	placement	Trí (bố trí)	置	placement, eye, cross-eyed, net, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook	13	25	Eye . . . straightaway.		On the JET Programme, many people have their eye on a placement in Tokyo, Osaka or another big city, and write it on their application form. They are usually sent to the countryside straightaway.	Working in retail you learn the placement of any item should be at eye level so it´s seen straightaway.	4	3	チ	お.く、-お.き	置く (お.く)
896	penalty	Phạt	罰	penalty, eye, cross-eyed, net, say, words, keitai, mouth, sword, sabre, saber	14	25	Eye . . . words . . . saber.		For Japanese, when the mind´s eye (the sideways eye) feels guilty for something bad that the body has done, there are two penaltys to choose from. One, you can say I´m sorry. Two, you can commit suicide by sabre. Why, oh why, do so many Japanese executives commit suicide at the first sign of scandal when all the have to do is say I´m sorry to get off the hook. (on yomi: バチ, バツ).	There is a 3-way masterplan for every goalkeeper to prevent a goal at penalty shootout: 1. Look directly into the eyes of the player --- 2. Confuse him by screaming senseless words --- 3. Pull out you your saber and ... (that´s up to you).	JH	1	バツ、バチ、ハツ	ばっ.する	罰金 (ばっきん), 処罰 (しょばつ), 天罰 (てんばつ)
897	rather	Ninh (thà, an ninh, yên ổn)	寧	rather, house, heart, eye, cross-eyed, net, street, nail, spike	14	25	House . . . heart . . . eye . . . spike.		Rather a house with a heart than an eye with a spike.	"A pretty tough kanji. Think of elegant old housewives with English accents dining together at a HOUSE party. The hostess brings out a dish of hors d´oeuvres: a SPIKE of metal with an EYEBALL and a HEART skewered on it. Upon being offered this treat, one of the housewives says in her English accent, ""I´d RATHER not.""."	JH	1	ネイ	むし.ろ	
898	voiced	Trọc (đục)	濁	voiced, water, water droplets, water pistol, spider, eye, cross-eyed, net, bound up, insect	16	25	"The key word for this kanji connotes the ""muddying"" effect on a soft consonant brought about by vibrating the vocal chords. For example, in English a ""j"" is voiced while a ""sh"" is unvoiced. In Japanese, the し is changed to じ when it is voiced. The primitives are: water . . . eye . . . bound up . . . insect."		"The fly is wrapped in a spiderweb voicing ""Help me, Help Me"" under the watchful eye of the spider who´s venom is dripping like water from her fangs."	Pour water over the eyes of a bound up insect if you want to hear a pitiful buzz that is very similar to a VOICED consanant.	JH	1	ダク、ジョク	にご.る、にご.す	濁す (にご.す), 濁る (にご.る)
899	ring	Hoàn (cái vòng ngọc)	環	ring, king, jewel, ball, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf	17	25	Jewel . . . eye . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . scarf. The number of elements is large here, so take extra care. Learn it in conjunction with the next frame, since these are the only two cases in this book where the combination of elements to the right appears.		Together with the next kanji, the keywords spell “send back the ring”. First we have a jewel. Next we have the great eye of Sauron searching for the fellowship hiding under the many ceilings during their journey. The fourth and fifth primitives are the mouth of Gollum always mumbling “My preciousss”; and Pippin´s scarf! Placement: the eye appears at the top similarly to how the Great Eye of Sauron is perched atop the Dark Tower.	In conjunction with send back (#837)....... When I tried to give her the jewel ring, she eyed me, threw it to the floor, opened her mouth and tried to speak, she said nothing. She grabbed her scarf and left.	JH	1	カン	わ	
900	send back	Hoàn (hoàn trả)	還	send back, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf, road	16	25	Road . . . eye . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . scarf.		You´ve probably guessed it by now, this is the road that Sam and Frodo take to send back the ring to Mount Doom! (see previous frame, the jewel is replaced by the road).	Continued from ring (#836)....... So I´m on the road going to send back the ring minus the jewel, the hit to the floor knocked it out.	JH	1	カン	かえ.る	
901	husband	Phu	夫	husband, husband, one, large	4	25	"The kanji for a husband or ""head of the family"" is based on the kanji for large and an extra line near the top for the ""head."" Recall the kanji for heavens already learned back in frame 457, and be sure to keep your story for this kanji different."		Even though it is argued size is not important, I´m sure most women would like their husband to have a big one.	Homer Simpson, as a primitive.	4	3	フ、フウ、ブ	おっと、そ.れ	夫妻 (ふさい), 農夫 (のうふ), 凡夫 (ぼんおっと), 夫 (おっと)
902	aid	Phù (phù hộ, phù trợ)	扶	aid, finger, fingers, husband	7	25	Fingers . . . husband.		Using his finger the husband sometimes is an erotic aid to his partner.	In Homer Simpsons´ house, the first aid kit is usually used for when he smashes his fingers trying to build something (there are countless Simpsons episodes you can draw from for this).	JH	1	フ	たす.ける	
903	mountain stream	Khê (thung lũng, khê cốc)	渓	mountain stream, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, husband	11	25	Water . . . vulture . . . husband.		The Simpsons are on vacation. Homer stops to take a leak in a mountain stream but gets snatched by an eagle. Hear his scream?	A husband who went fishing at the mountain stream to feed his family, fell in the rapids (we´ll assume this is a large mountain stream). He is saved from the waters by a great eagle. He comes back home with nothing to feed the family, his clothes still dripping wet as he tells his wife of how he was saved by a great eagle, and of course she does not believe him. The story continues in chicken (#1947).	JH	1	ケイ	たに、たにがわ	
904	standard	Quy (qui tắc, qui luật)	規	standard, husband, see, telescope, eye, human legs	11	25	Husband . . . see.		In the male-dominated world of yesterday, the husband´s way of seeing things was considered the standard point of view. Women who dared to disagree were frowned upon.	Unfortunately, Homer Simpson is the standard model of a husband in American society. (Placement: You have to look in the RIGHT places to find one that doesn´t fit that mold.).	5	3	キ		
905	exchange	Thế (thay thế)	替	exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2	12	25	Two husbands . . . day.		"A show like ""Trading Spouses"" called ""exchanging husbands"" where 2 husbands are exchanged for a day (thanks dingomick)."	Marge´s dream: to exchange Homer for another husband for just one day.	JH	2	タイ	か.える、か.え-、か.わる	替える (か.える), 替わる (か.わる)
906	approve	Tán (tán đồng, tán thành)	賛	approve, husband, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, husband2	15	25	Two husbands . . . shells.		Out of two potential husbands, which would you approve of? Well, the one with shells (money) of course!!!	"Bush´s campaign- ""John Kerry approves using taxpayers´ money to support gay marriage. I don´t."" ""I approve this message""."	5	3	サン	たす.ける、たた.える	
907	submerge	Tiềm (tiềm ẩn, tiềm thức)	潜	submerge, water, water droplets, water pistol, exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2	15	25	Water . . . exchange.		When a submarine or similar vessel SUBMERGES an EXCHANGE of air for WATER takes place in special compartments.	The two husbands exchange for a day on the reality TV show (see exchange (#842)) finally goes underway. One of the two husband´s first job is to fix the water faucet in his new family´s apartment. Unfortunately, he isn´t very good at fixing things and after a few failed attempts the entire apartment is submerged in water.	JH	1	セン	ひそ.む、もぐ.る、かく.れる、くぐ.る、ひそ.める	潜む (ひそ.む), 潜る (もぐ.る)
908	lose	Thất (thấp nghiệp)	失	lose, drop, husband	5	25	"""To lose"" here takes the sense of ""misplace,"" not the sense of defeat, whose kanji we learned in frame 67. It pictures a husband with something falling from his side as he is walking along, something he loses."	* As a primitive, this character can also mean to drop.	The drop falling here is the husband´s toupee... he´s already lost his hair once, now he´s losing it again. Such is life, I suppose.	Note: Heisig´s stroke order is wrong. It´s the same as vermilion, drop first. Homer loses/drops his wedding ring.	4	3	シツ	うしな.う、う.せる	失う (うしな.う)
909	iron	Thiết (sắt)	鉄	iron, metal, gold, lose, drop, husband	13	25	Metal . . . to drop.		Iron is a metal that gradually becomes lost due to oxidation and rust.	Compare with pig-iron (#270). In moving from pig-iron to iron, some of the metal´s maleability is LOST. (The only difference between the two kanji is that IRON has knee-less, unbending legs, while PIG-IRON (270) has very supple, bendable legs.).	3	2	テツ	くろがね	
910	alternate	Điệt (luân phiên, đắp đổi)	迭	transfer, alternate, lose, drop, husband, road	8	25	To drop . . . road.		When you get lost, you just take an alternate road to get back on track.	When you lose your way, you can always try to tell the wife that you merely took an alternate road. To save time you know. I´m not LOST, I´m just taking an alternate road. Ahem.	JH	1	テツ		
911	retainer	Thần (bầy tôi, trung thần)	臣	retainer, slave	7	25	"This kanji is actually a pictograph for an eye, distorted to make it appear that the pupil is protruding towards the right. This may not be an easy form to remember, but try this: Draw it once rather large, and notice how moving the two vertical lines on the right as far right as possible gives you the pictograph of the eye in its natural form. The ""pop-eye"" image belongs to an Emperor's retainer standing in awe before his ruler."	* As a primitive, the meaning of the key word becomes slave.	Its a pictograph of a teeth with a retainer in the middle.	Retainer = A slave (for the purposes of this kanji.) This is a pictograph of a slave collar with two handcuffs dangling from it.	4	2	シン、ジン		臣下 (しんか), 君臣 (くんしん)
912	princess	Cơ (công chúa)	姫	princess, woman, retainer, slave	10	25	Woman . . . slave.		Princess Leia becomes Jabba´s slave (“princess Leia is a woman slave”).	Cinderella: A woman who was a slave who became a princess.	JH	1	キ	ひめ、ひめ-	姫 (ひめ)
913	storehouse	Táng (bảo tàng, tàng trữ)	蔵	storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave	15	25	Flowers . . . parade . . . slaves.		"The storehouse is overgrown with slaves. The slaves are to be sold in the store, to differentiate from a warehouse, which doesn´t have the word ""store"" in it."	Slaves moved flowers from the storehouse in preparation for the parade.	6	2	ゾウ、ソウ	くら、おさ.める、かく.れる	蔵 (くら)
914	entrails	Tạng (nội tạng)	臓	entrails, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave	19	25	Part of the body . . . storehouse.		You signed your organ donor card, right? So, when you die, your entrails and other body parts will be placed in a storehouse.	Again with the Pyramids, each Pharaoh had their entrails taken out and put into little jars that were shaped in the forms of their Gods and entombed along with the preserved body. So, the entrails are the parts of the body that are placed in the storehouse along with the Pharaoh! Damnit, why can´t they always be this easy? :(.	6	2	ゾウ	はらわた	
915	intelligent	Hiền (hiền nhân)	賢	intelligent, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	16	25	Slave . . . crotch . . . shellfish.		An intelligent man is neither slave to his crotch nor to money. But an intelligent slave will know how to use his/her crotch to make money.	Every intelligent man is a slave to two things, his: 1) crotch, and 2) money.	JH	2	ケン	かしこ.い	賢い (かしこ.い)
917	strict	Kiên (kiên cố, bền chặt)	堅	strict, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	12	25	Slave . . . crotch . . . soil.		"The strict parent thinks adolescent kids are ""slaves to their crotch"" (= can´t control their hormones), so he grounds them. Permanently!"	I´m very strict about not just sleeping with anyone. People who are slaves to their crotches often end up with dirty genitalia and I don´t want to get their VD. (on yomi=ケン).	JH	1	ケン	かた.い、-がた.い	堅い (かた.い)
918	look to	Lâm (lâm thời, ở trên soi xuống)	臨	look to, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, goods, mouth, mouth3	18	25	"Slave . . . reclining . . . goods. The key word suggests both looking ahead to something and ""seeing to"" what is at hand. Consistent with everything we have learned about the role of the key word, this means that you must choose ONE meaning and stick to it."		"The slave is look to the future, ""One day"" he thinks ""I will be able to recline with all my goods, a tv, stereo and washing machine, and when that day comes I shall be truly happy"" he sighs."	"Imagine a slave(or in this case, a female porn star) looking to her new gangbang film where she reclines and gets all 3 holes filled at the same...........OK. Very vulgar, but I was inspired by raulir´s clever use of ""3 holes""........."	6	1	リン	のぞ.む	臨む (のぞ.む)
919	perusal	Lãm (triển lãm)	覧	perusal, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs	17	25	Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor . . . see.		The slave reclines on the floor at night to watch the stars. Since that´s the only thing the slave is allowed to “read”, he does so very thoroughly and diligently, hence perusal.	"[+scottamus] ""Please, come in and peruse this fine selection of slaves, all reclining here on the floor for your perusal. Have a look here"": http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/09/Slave_ship_diagram.png/440px-Slave_ship_diagram.png."	6	1	ラン	み.る	
920	gigantic	Cự (to lớn)	巨	gigantic, Fafner	5	25	"This kanji depicts a gigantic ""pop-eye,"" which accounts for its shape. Be sure not to confuse it with the slave (retainer) we just learned."		This is actually the top view of a porn star with a gigantic erect penis. The top and bottom are his arms and the middle is his penis. Imagine him making the pumping motion while he´s banging some chick. The arms move in, the penis moves out and vice versa.	The letter E, with a GIGANTIC middle stroke.	JH	2	キョ		
921	repel	Cự (cự tuyệt, chống cự)	拒	repel, finger, fingers, gigantic, Fafner	8	25	Fingers . . . gigantic.		A woman might be REPELLED by a porn star´s GIGANTIC penis, so he kindly offers to use his FINGERS instead.	Having gigantic fingers is useful to repel insects. You can swat them away a lot easier!	JH	1	キョ、ゴ	こば.む	拒む (こば.む)
922	power	Lực (sức lực)	力	power, muscle, arnold	2	25	With a little imagination, one can see a muscle in this simple, two-stroke character meaning power.	* As a primitive, either muscle or power can be used.	"I always refer to the power of the KATAKANA ""KA""."	I have a very powerful muscle カ in my driveway!	1	4	リョク、リキ、リイ	ちから	権力 (けんりょく), 努力 (どりょく), 能力 (のうりょく), 力 (ちから)
923	man	Nam	男	male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold	7	25	Rice fields . . . power. This character is the gender-specific man, not the generic human person of frame 951.		Male is seen here as muscles working in the field, in other words working in the rice fields is the work of the male who are usually stronger. This is more or less the meaning of the original Chinese character.	When it comes to choosing a MAN, I prefer brains over muscles.	1	5	ダン、ナン	おとこ、お	男子 (だんし), 男女 (だんじょ), 男性 (だんせい), 男 (おとこ)
924	labor	Lao (lao động)	労	labor, schoolhouse, owl, crown, power, muscle, arnold	7	25	Schoolhouse . . . power.		Those jocks who always tried to show their muscles in the schoolhouse are now the ones out there doing manual labor jobs while we sit here and learn Japanese. Ha!	At the schoolhouse, the administration develops the children´s muscles by making them do manual labour.	4	3	ロウ	ろう.する、いたわ.る、いた.ずき、ねぎら、つか.れる、ねぎら.う	
925	recruit	Mộ (chiêu mộ)	募	recruit, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, power, muscle, arnold	12	25	Graveyard . . . power.		The necromancer hangs out at the local graveyard and uses his dark powers to recruit an army of undead. Emphasize the verb form to keep distinct from the noun cadet (#1173).	WANTED: Hardworking GRAVEYARD diggers. Must have 6 months experience with POWERFUL muscles as will be working in South Africa burying deceased elephants.	JH	2	ボ	つの.る	募る (つの.る)
926	inferiority	Liệt (thua kém)	劣	inferiority, few, power, muscle, arnold	6	25	Few . . . muscles.		I have an inferiority complex because I have fewer muscles than everyone else at the gym. They all look like Macho Man Randy Savage (power) to me.	I had trouble remembering the relative position of the components, so now I use this story: Even muscular men have inferiority if they have few things above their muscles (i.e., brain cells).	JH	1	レツ	おと.る	劣る (おと.る)
927	achievement	Công (công trạng)	功	achievement, craft, powered, power, muscle, arnold	5	25	Craft . . . power.		The great achievements of humankind, were crafts completed by muscle power: the pyramids, the Eiffel tower, etc.	All of Arnold Schwarzenegger´s achievements started with him crafting his muscles.	4	1	コウ、ク	いさお	功名 (こうみょう), 功績 (こうせき), 成功 (せいこう)
928	persuade	Khuyến	勧	persuade, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, power, muscle, arnold	13	25	Pegasus . . . power.		"Mnemonic ""pegasus persuasion power"". I think of the hippogriff from Harry Potter as being like a pegasus. To befriend a hippogriff, you have to persuade it you mean no harm, you can do this if you have ""pegasus persuasion power""."	It would take a powerful argument to persuade me Pegasus was real… RTK2:　カン　勧奨　かんしょう(encouragement)… 　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　歓570　観572 　(ｹﾝ): 権571.	JH	1	カン、ケン	すす.める	勧める (すす.める)
929	toil	Nô (nỗ lực, gắng)	努	toil, guy, woman, crotch, power, muscle, arnold	7	25	Guy . . . muscle.		GUY POWER!!! Body builders toiling in the gym all day....　　　　　RTK2:　ド　努力　どりょく (effort)...　Pure Group: 　奴702 　怒703.	Guy + Power: To reach a position of power in the company, the average guy has to toil very hard for many years.	4	3	ド	つと.める	努める (つと.める)
931	encourage	Lệ (khích lệ)	励	encourage, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, power, muscle, arnold	7	25	Cliff . . . ten thousand . . . power.		10,000 Persians are at the base of the cliff, but the leader of the 300 Spartans just flexes his huge muscles and encourages his men by shouting that they have the power to fight them all.	People encourage you, giving you the power so you can dive off the 10,000m high cliff into the sea.	JH	1	レイ	はげ.む、はげ.ます	励ます (はげ.ます), 励む (はげ.む)
932	add	Gia (phụ gia)	加	add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth	5	25	Muscles . . . mouth. This is the only case in which the primitive for muscle appears on the left; note should be taken of the fact in composing one's story.		If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo).	This is Power Mouth, the most annoying neighbour in the world who always has something to add.	4	3	カ	くわ.える、くわ.わる	加える (くわ.える), 加わる (くわ.わる)
933	congratulations	Hạ (chúc mừng)	賀	congratulations, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	25	Add . . . shells.		When someone at work gets married, you pass around an envelope to which you add some money and a card which you sign with your congratulations.	Congratulations are so much better when you add money to them.	5	1	ガ		
934	erect	Giá (cái giá)	架	erect, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, tree, wood	9	25	"Add . . . trees. Hint: if you ever played with an ""Erector Set"" or ""Tinker Toys"" as a child, don't pass up the opportunity to relate it to this kanji's key word and the element for trees."		Instant wood. Just add Viagra.	I´m not sure I know about erector sets or tinker toys but I do know about jenga. You play by taking wooden pieces from the middle of a wooden tower and adding them to the top. In this way you erect a very unstable structure.	JH	1	カ	か.ける、か.かる	架かる (か.かる), 架ける (か.ける)
935	armpit (cách khác, chỗ khác)	Hiếp	脇	armpit, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3	10	25	"Part of the body . . . muscles (three of which give us ""triceps"" or ""muscles on top of muscles""). You will want to keep the kanji distinct from the one that follows by paying attention to the positioning of the elements."		What part of the body has a very, very, very powerful smell? The armpit, of course!	(no important on yomi) The part of Conan´s body that is three times more effective at defeating foes than his muscles are his stinky ARMPITs. [Note: Typically, when the flesh primitive is on the left side it refers to a body part - this helps distinguish in from threaten (#871)].	JH		キョウ	わき、わけ	脇 (わき)
936	threaten	Hiếp (uy hiếp)	脅	threaten, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power3, muscle3, arnold3	10	25	Triceps . . . part of the body.		Compare the primitive positions of armpit (#870) and threaten (#871). When your triceps rest alongside your body, they fit snugly against your armpit. When you hold them above your body, however, your posture becomes quite threatening.	Don´t threaten a warewolf. He´s three times as powerful ON a full moon.　RTK2:　キョウ　脅迫　きょうはく (blackmail)…　Pure Group:　協872.	JH	1	キョウ	おびや.かす、おど.す、おど.かす	脅かす (おど.かす), 脅す (おど.す), 脅かす (おびや.かす)
937	co-	Hiệp (hiệp lực)	協	co-, ten, needle, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3	8	25	This prefix should be kept distinct from inter (Frame 222) and mutual (Frame 819). Its elements: needle . . . triceps.		The nurse says : “If you co-operate, that needle (syringe) in your triceps won´t hurt”. Note: both co- and cooperate are meanings for this kanji.	Co-operation: 3 persons can have the power of ten if they co-operate.	4	2	キョウ		
938	going	Hành	行	going, boulevard, going	6	25	By joining the top four strokes, you should get a picture of the front current of a river, the stream trailing behind. Hence the character for going.	* As a primitive, this character has two forms. Reduced to the left side only, it can mean a column, going, or a line of something or other. When the middle is opened up to make room for other elements, it means a boulevard.	I use The Flash for for this primitive; a superhero who is always going very fast.	To me, this looks like a bridge going over a body of water, being supported by columns underneath it. Being that I live near the ocean, I see tourists and vacationers coming and going constantly on the bridge. Because the bridge is so long, it forms an arc to support the structural integrity. You can see that arc here.	2	5	コウ、ギョウ、アン	い.く、ゆ.く、-ゆ.き、-ゆき、-い.き、-いき、おこな.う、おこ.なう	行進 (こうしん), 行為 (こうい), 旅行 (りょこう), 行列 (ぎょうれつ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 修行 (しゅぎょう), 行く (い.く), 行う (おこな.う), 行く (ゆ.く)
939	rhythm	Luật (luật pháp)	律	rhythm, Nelson, column, going, line, brush	9	25	This character depicts a calligrapher's brush and its rhythmic sway as it flows down a column writing kanji on the way.		The calligrapher´s brush is moving down a column of a script, in rhythm with his meditation.	The army COLUMN walked to the RHYTHM made by the drummer using a cool BRUSH like drum stick. Picturing the brush as a drum stick is not difficult if you´ve seen such a thing in jazz videos.	6	2	リツ、リチ、レツ		律動 (りつどう), 規律 (きりつ), 法律 (ほうりつ)
940	restore	Phục (phục hồi)	復	restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs	12	25	Going . . . double back.		Before going all the way to the Boss in a Final Fantasy game, you should probably double back to save at a restore point.	The column of soldiers has to double back to restore the peace in the village they just left.	5	2	フク	また	
941	gain	Đắc (đắc lợi)	得	gain, Nelson, column, going, line, bill posters, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, glue	11	25	Column . . . nightbreak . . . glue.		To gain more knowledge of what´s goin on in the world I´m reading column after column of articles in the newspapers, and it takes so much time I´m glued to it till nightbreak.	Imagine fat people......they avoid going outside to exercise and stay glued to their TV set until nightbreak....so of course they gain weight.	4	3	トク	え.る、う.る	得る (う.る), 得る (え.る)
942	accompany	Tùng, tòng (phục tùng..)	従	accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend	10	25	Column . . . animal horns . . . mending.		The line of viking soldiers is always accompanied by a horn mending specialist.	"I´m going to accompany the horny girl to her room so I can ""mend"" her."	6	1	ジュウ、ショウ、ジュ	したが.う、したが.える、より	従事 (じゅうじ), 従順 (じゅうじゅん), 服従 (ふくじゅう), 従容 (しょうよう), 従う (したが.う), 従える (したが.える)
943	junior	Đồ (môn đồ, đồ đệ)	徒	junior, Nelson, column, going, line, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend	10	25	Line . . . run.		Junior is GOING to RUN the family business one day...	The junior employee is always RUNNING around GOING here and there for his superiors.	4	3	ト	いたずら、あだ	
944	wait	Đãi (đợi)	待	wait, Nelson, column, going, line, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	9	25	Line . . . Buddhist temple.		A line queued up outside the Buddhist temple, waiting to see the shrine on New Year´s Day.	The COLUMNS of this TEMPLE are a well-know meeting spot. You can always see someone WAITING there.	3	4	タイ	ま.つ、-ま.ち	待つ (ま.つ)
945	journey	Vãng (đi, dĩ vãng)	往	journey, Nelson, column, going, line, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	8	25	Column . . . candlestick. This character has the special sense of journeying to someplace or other.		Parties should stay in a single-file line and carry a candlestick while journeying through an unknown dungeon in an RPG.	In Medieval Japan, going to see your lord was often a long journey.	5	1	オウ	い.く、いにしえ、さき.に、ゆ.く	
946	subjugate	Chinh (chinh phục, chinh phạt)	征	subjugate, Nelson, column, going, line, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint	8	25	Column . . . correct.		America seeks to GO and CORRECT other nations. But really what they do is subjugate them...	To subjugate is to have somebody stand still and stiff as a column and behave one hundred percent correctly.	JH	1	セイ		
947	diameter	Kính (bán kính)	径	diameter, Nelson, column, going, line, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	8	25	Line . . . spool.		Scientists recently measured the diameter of Earth by drilling a deep hole and dropping a line of thread off a humongous spool until it got to the other side.	"Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Measure the diameter of a column (maybe Nelson´s Column in London?) using a roll of toilet paper. Spool also appears in stalk (#715), suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), sutra (#1360)."	4	1	ケイ	みち、こみち、さしわたし、ただちに	
948	he	Bỉ (anh ta)	彼	he, Nelson, column, going, line, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	8	25	Going . . . pelt. This kanji refers to the third person singular personal pronoun, generally in its masculine form.		What´s the main difference between a he and a she? The he has a column covered in a pelt... a penis. Badum-ching.	The ultimate he-man is the Neanderthal cave man. His club is as big as a pillar (column), and he wears a ragged pelt as his only clothing. To remember the column, imagine the cave man resting the club vertically like a column when not in use.	JH	3	ヒ	かれ、かの、か.の	彼 (かれ)
949	duty	Dịch (chức vụ)	役	duty, Nelson, column, going, line, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	7	25	Going . . . missile.		Japanese kamikaze pilots (and the American from Dr. Strangelove) are so devoted to their duty that they go with their missiles.	Imagine those poor saps in charge of nuclear silos, responsible for ICBMS, those towering column missiles. When the order comes they must decide whether to obey their concience or do their duty and damn the world to atomic annihilation.	3	3	ヤク、エキ		役所 (やくしょ), 役目 (やくめ), 荷役 (かやく)
950	benevolence	Đức	徳	benevolence, Nelson, column, going, line, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart	14	25	Going . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Refer back now to the note in frame 890.		Hearkening back to the kanji for LISTEN... Benevolence is a good listener who is willing to go the distance to help.	In a rare act of benevolence, the Sparten column removes the needle from the cyclops´s eye, and he repays them by eating their hearts.	5	1	トク		
951	penetrate	Triệt (triệt để)	徹	penetrate, Nelson, column, going, line, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster	15	25	Line . . . bring up . . . taskmaster.		The taskmistress in a moment of weakness allowed the man´s column to penetrate her. As punishment he was made to bring up their infant.	Ha! In this frame, a bunch of taskmasters are lined up to penetrate the kids they raise/bring up! I´m thinking of some priests and choir boys.	JH	1	テツ		
952	indications	Trưng (đặc trưng, tượng trưng)	徴	indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster	14	25	Line . . . mountain . . . king . . . taskmaster.		If you see a column of kings being marched up the mountain under a taskmaster´s whip... indications are, there has been a coup.	All indications are that the taskmaster´s son is going to be king of the mountain soon …　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チョウ 象徴　しょうちょう(symbol)…　　　　Pure Group:　懲888.	JH	1	チョウ、チ	しるし	
953	penal	Trừng (trừng phạt)	懲	penal, indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster, heart	18	25	Indications . . . heart.		"Penal servitude is served until indications show that one has had a change of heart (learned one´s lesson). Easily confused with punish (#679) and penalty (#833). Concentrate on the reasons behind the penal system (""changing people´s hearts"" here), instead of the penalty itself or the punishment (revenge) aspect. It may help to note that there´s no sword, but a heart :-) (Note: 懲りる = learn from one´s bad experiences)."	Judge: You will serve a penal sentence until indications show you have a heart.	JH	1	チョウ	こ.りる、こ.らす、こ.らしめる	懲らしめる (こ.らしめる), 懲らす (こ.らす), 懲りる (こ.りる)
954	delicate	Vi (hiển vi, vi sinh vật)	微	delicate, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, one, ceiling, human legs, taskmaster	13	25	Line . . . mountain . . . ceiling . . . human legs . . . taskmaster.		The Column of 300 spartans were in a delicate situation. They had travelled in one line (using only their legs) to the mountain pass to face the fierce Persian task master.	"Telling your taskmistress (wife) why you are going mountain climbing without her is a delicate situation... ""For one thing you have such beautiful legs and I don´t want to risk injuring them honey""...　　　　　　RTK2:　ビ　微笑　びしょう(smile)　""delicate laugh""."	JH	1	ビ	かす.か	
955	boulevard	Nhai (phố xá)	街	boulevard, going, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	12	25	This is the character from which the sense of boulevard mentioned in frame 938 derives. Its elements: boulevard . . . ivy.		The boulevard of boulevards, the Champs Elysées, with the Arc de Triomphe covered in ivy to give the champions a heroes´ welcome.	Specifically... ivy boulevard... think hollywood & vine.	4	1	ガイ、カイ	まち	街頭 (がいとう), 市街 (しがい), 商店街 (しょうてんがい), 街 (まち)
957	equilibrium	Hành (cái cân)	衡	equilibrium, boulevard, going, bound up, rice field, brains, large, St. Bernard	16	25	Boulevard . . . bound up . . . brains . . . St. Bernard dog.		To maintain the social equilibrium in a future dystopian society, the brains of citizens are bound up (hypnotized). The government is using mental wave emitting statues shaped like St. Bernard´s dogs put alongside the boulevards.	I think BALANCE is an easier keyword. I was walking down a busy French boulevard when between the rushing traffic I saw the wierdest thing. BALANCING on the central crash barrier was a St. Bernard dog, BALANCING a fish on its nose. As I looked closer, I realised it was a trick; it was holding the fish´s tail in its teeth, and only pretending to BALANCE it. (keeps the position of the elements!).	JH	1	コウ		
958	draft	Cảo (nguyên cảo, bản viết)	稿	draft, wheat, cereal, tall, top hat, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2	15	26	The key word connotes the preliminary composition of a plan or manuscript. Its elements: wheat . . . tall.		Aliens often draft their plans for invasion by cutting designs among the tall wheat.	"The first DRAFT of catcher in the rye was actually called ""catcher in the TALL WHEAT""...good thing they changed it. I read it in 高校."	JH	1	コウ	わら、したがき	
959	earnings	Giá (kiếm tiền)	稼	earnings, wheat, cereal, house, sow, pig	15	26	Wheat . . . house.		Your earnings allow you to bring home your daily bread (made of wheat, naturally).	"Hmm, EARNINGS. Think of the popular saying ""Bringing HOME the bacon"". Here, EARNINGS is the picture ""Bringing HOME the bread(WHEAT) and the bacon (PIG)."	JH	1	カ	かせ.ぐ	稼ぐ (かせ.ぐ)
960	extent	Trình (trình độ, công trình)	程	extent, wheat, cereal, display, mouth, king, jewel, ball	12	26	Wheat . . . display. Do not confuse with extremity (Frame 230) or boundary (Frame 523).		The extent to which some people will go to create ´wheat displays´, or as some call them ´crop circles´, is truly amazing.	The wheat crop has come in, and the mouth of the king is gobbling it all up. Everyone is waiting to see... to what extent will the king manage to eat it this year?	5	3	テイ	ほど、-ほど	程 (ほど)
961	tax	Thuế	税	tax, wheat, cereal, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	12	26	Wheat . . . devil.		Nobody likes the tax man, so here it is only fitting that the person who comes over to take some of your wheat is depicted here as a devil. Keep in mind that in feudal societies there was no kind of money to speak of, so taxes were paid by serfs in wheat to the devils who came over to keep them poor.	This is an easy one. Taxes is like the devil taking away your hard earned wheat.	5	2	ゼイ		
962	immature	Trĩ (ấu trĩ)	稚	immature, wheat, cereal, turkey	13	26	Wheat . . . turkey.		Immature turkeys are stuffed with wheat to make it look bigger.	I can´t believe I brought you to the fanciest restaurant in town and you asked for turkey on wheat...how immature is that?!	JH	1	チ、ジ	いとけない、おさない、おくて、おでる	
963	harmony	Hoà (điều hoà)	和	harmony, wheat, cereal, mouth	8	26	Wheat . . . mouth.		The first step to harmony is having enough wheat to feed every mouth in the world. Once we are all fed it is easier to get a long in harmony.	People who live in harmony with nature live in the country. they are yokels or hillbillys. See Billy-bob sitting on the porch in their denhim dungarees a sheaf of wheat, sticking from their mouth.	3	3	ワ、オ、カ	やわ.らぐ、やわ.らげる、なご.む、なご.やか	和解 (わかい), 和服 (わふく), 柔和 (にゅうわ), 和む (なご.む), 和やか (なご.やか), 和らぐ (やわ.らぐ), 和らげる (やわ.らげる)
964	shift	Di (di chuyển)	移	shift, wheat, cereal, many, evening, evening2	11	26	Wheat . . . many.		Picture the WHEAT field, filled with MANY, MANY stalks of WHEAT. Notice how they SHIFT like waves in the slightest breeze. When you hear SHIFT, just picture that scene.	Many people are making the shift from white to whole wheat bread.	5	2	イ	うつ.る、うつ.す	移す (うつ.す), 移る (うつ.る)
965	second	Miếu (giây)	秒	second, wheat, cereal, few	9	26	The reference here is to a second of time. The elements: wheat . . . few.		An hourglass filled with wheat counts time. A few wheat seeds drop every second.	I´ll be with you soon... please wheat a few seconds.	3	2	ビョウ		
966	autumn	Thu	秋	autumn, wheat, cereal, fire	9	26	Wheat . . . fire.		In AUTUMN, the WHEAT looks the color of FIRE, meaning it´s time to harvest it.	Every autumn the wheat is set on fire to clear the way for next year´s crop...	2	4	シュウ	あき、とき	秋 (あき)
967	distress	Sầu	愁	distress, autumn, wheat, cereal, fire, heart	13	26	Autumn . . . heart.		In AUTUMN, the farmer´s HEART is in DISTRESS as to if he has enough crops. Even better, the farmer will experience great DISTRESS in his HEART if his WHEAT catches FIRE!	"Here we have distressed (think ""gloomy"") people with ""seasonal mood disorder"" during the autumn season. Hence ""autumn heart"" is distressed (gloomy)."	JH	1	シュウ	うれ.える、うれ.い	愁い (うれ.い), 愁える (うれ.える)
968	private	Tư	私	private, wheat, cereal, elbow	7	26	Wheat . . . elbow. Like the characters for I (Frame 17) and ego (Frame 690), this kanji is also representative of the subject, with the special connotation of privacy.		"Warning sign: ""Private wheat, trespassers will be elbowed""."	"I already know this as watashi, or ""I"". In order to associate the keyword of private, I´ll think of this one as ""Private I"", like a detective."	6	4	シ	わたくし、わたし	私 (わたくし)
969	regularity	Trật (trật tự)	秩	regularity, wheat, cereal, lose, drop, husband	10	26	Wheat . . . drop.		Think of REGULARITY in terms of bowel movements. Enough WHEAT in your diet will help your DROPS with improved REGULARITY.	Eating plenty of wheat will improve regularity and help you lose weight.	JH	1	チツ		
970	secret	Bí	秘	secret, wheat, cereal, invariably, heart, drop	10	26	Cereal . . . invariably.		The prize at the bottom of a cereal box is invariably a secret decoder ring.	A young couple meets in secret in the wheat field because their families are enemies. They cross their hearts and swear eternal - even if secret - love. Do not confuse with secrecy (#775).	6	1	ヒ	ひ.める、ひそ.か、かく.す	秘める (ひ.める)
971	appellation	Xưng (xưng tên, danh xưng)	称	appellation, wheat, cereal, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little	10	26	Wheat . . . reclining . . . little.		Taking appellation to mean the act of naming, we have the little baby superman reclining in the space craft that landed in a wheat field. Mr. and Mrs. Kent look down and decide to call him Clark. (I also thought of Jesus but he was born in a barn full of hay not wheat).	"WHEAT that is RECLINING and LITTLE (small) can´t get the APPELLATION ""quality wheat""."	JH	1	ショウ	たた.える、とな.える、あ.げる、かな.う、はか.り、はか.る、ほめ.る	
972	profit	Lợi	利	profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber	7	26	Wheat . . . saber. Be careful not to confuse with gain (Frame 941) or earnings (Frame 959).		In the middle ages there where only 2 ways for peasantry to make a profit. one by being a farmer, 2 to be a mercenary and live by the way of the sword.	1. Steal a bunch of wheat from a wheat field by cutting it down with your saber. 2. ????? 3. Profit!	4	3	リ	き.く	利く (き.く)
973	pear tree	Lê	梨	pear tree, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber, tree, wood	11	26	Profit . . . tree.		The Japanese pear tree is the most profitable in the world, because it produces its fruit in pairs [sorry for the awful pun].	And a profit in a pear tree...12 days of christmas.	JH	1	リ	なし	梨 (なし)
974	harvest	Hoạch	穫	harvest, wheat, cereal, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch	18	26	Wheat . . . flowers . . . vessels. Compare frames 756 and 757 for the right side.		The harvest of genetically modified crops is taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (see the flower vessel in safeguard (#700)).	Wheat is harvested; the grain (flower) is put into vessels for shipping.	JH	1	カク		
975	ear of a plant	Tuệ (tai)	穂	ear (of a plant), wheat, cereal, favour, favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart	15	26	Wheat . . . favor.		The pilgrims only had wheat, so they asked the Indians to do them a favor and trade them for some ears of corn.	"The ""ear of a plant"" is the seed-bearing spike of a cereal plant, such as corn. In other words, it is the part which feeds us. Hence -- ""the ear (of a plant) is the favor of the wheat""."	JH	1	スイ	ほ	穂 (ほ)
976	rice plant	Đạo (cây lúa)	稲	rice plant, wheat, cereal, claw, vulture, old days, olden times, stick, sun, day	14	26	Wheat . . . vulture . . . olden times.		The rice plant is common in Japan because all the wheat was eaten by vultures in the olden times.	It used to be that wheat was grown in Japan. However, this was often stolen by vultures, so in olden times, the gods gave the Japanese the rice plant.	JH	1	トウ、テ	いね、いな-	稲 (いね)
977	incense	Hương	香	incense, wheat, cereal, sun, day	9	26	Wheat . . . sun.		If you focus the suns though a magnifying glass on to the bottom of a stalk of wheat it will start to smoulder and burn like a stick of incense. The weird thing is that it burns from the bottom upwards, hanging in the air as if my magic. Try it and see!	When the sun burns the wheat a smell of incense remains in the air.	JH	2	コウ、キョウ	か、かお.り、かお.る	香水 (こうすい), 香気 (こうき), 線香 (せんこう), 香 (か), 香り (かお.り), 香る (かお.る)
978	seasons	Tiết	季	seasons, wheat, cereal, child	8	26	Wheat . . . child.		There´s a season for planting wheat and there´s mating season for having children.	"Look at this adorable child with a bale of wheat on his head! He´s playing Autumn in his school play the ""Four Seasons"". Aww...too cute! Perhaps we should light the wheat on fire to complete his Autumn costume. (I know, twisted...but I kept forgetting what was on his head)."	4	2	キ		
979	committee	Uỷ	委	committee, wheat, cereal, woman	8	26	Wheat . . . woman.		Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.”.	At committe meetings, Japanese bureaucrats slurp ramen noodles off of naked women.	3	2	イ	ゆだ.ねる	
980	excel	Tú (ưu tú)	秀	excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from	7	26	Wheat . . . fist.		You spend three hours putting all of your wheat sale transaction records into Microsoft Excel, when suddenly it crashes, so you put your fist through the monitor.	"A soviet-era poster for the 5-year plan shouts ""Excel"" and shows a fist clenching a sheaf of wheat. Wheat/Fist."	JH	1	シュウ	ひい.でる	秀でる (ひい.でる)
981	transparent	Thấu	透	transparent, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from, road	10	26	Excel . . . road-way.		If you excel in the Mario Kart road, your movements are saved and you can race against yourself as a transparent racer. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8CkcrL-k4.	If you want to excel at driving in the roadway, it´s better if your windows and windshield are transparent. Picture the drivers with opaque windshields all wrecked on the side of the road.	JH	1	トウ	す.く、す.かす、す.ける、とう.る、とう.す	透かす (す.かす), 透く (す.く), 透ける (す.ける)
982	entice	Dụ	誘	entice, say, words, keitai, mouth, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from	14	26	Words . . . excel. Compare beckon (Frame 702), to urge (Frame 300), seduce (Frame 90), and encourage (Frame 931) when choosing your connotation.		Think of the smooth talker who EXCELS at using WORDS to entice women (including married women if it makes it easier to remember).	Word and Excel somehow manage to entice people to use them, despite their plethora of bugs.	JH	1	ユウ、イウ	さそ.う、いざな.う	誘う (さそ.う)
984	cereals	Cốc (ngũ cốc)	穀	cereals, samurai, crown, wheat, cereal, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	14	26	Samurai . . . crown . . . wheat . . . missile.		The samurai crowns wheat as the best cereal, and blows all others up with missiles (he´s a cereal killer).	There are different cereals in different parts of the world. Japan has samurai cereal. Great Britain has Crowned Wheat ... the United States and Russia have Missile cereals.	6	1	コク		
985	germ	Khuẩn	菌	germ, flowers, pent in, wheat, cereal	11	26	Flowers . . . pent in . . . wheat.		Can also mean bacteria.....imagine the wheat pent in your fridge growing to the point where they resemble flowers.......I actually had something similar happen to onions...they grew footlong legs after about 2 or 3 years......OR just think of that Cowboy Bebop episode with the lobster in the fridge... :-).	Actually it means germs as in microorganisms. So for example, you have to keep wheat enclosed so it isn´t exposed to other plants. That way it can´t catch any germs (like fungi) from them.	JH	1	キン		
987	rice	Mê (gạo)	米	rice	6	26	This kanji has a pictographic resemblance to a number of grains of rice lying on a plate in the shape of a star.	* As a primitive, it keeps its meaning of rice, and is meant to connote a very ordinary, commonplace grain, in contrast to the primitive for wheat that we just learned. (This meaning accords well with Japan, where the output of rice far exceeds that of wheat.) It occasionally takes a different shape when it stands on its own, or is joined to a line above. In this case, we shall have it refer specifically to grains of rice. This primitive is not to be confused with the similar-looking primitive for water. While the stroke orders are nearly alike, grains of rice has 5 strokes, while water only has 4 because it joins the second and third strokes into one. Finally, we may note that by itself the kanji for rice is an abbreviation used for the United States, which can then also serve as an alternate reading for the main primitive form, if you so wish.	Stroke order: I like to think of the first two strokes as “chop sticks” with which one eats the rice. The rest then is the “tree” meaning “plant” in this contexct. also: USA.	Two drops of rice in a tree, simple.	2	3	ベイ、マイ、メエトル	こめ、よね	米作 (べいさく), 米価 (べいか), 米食 (べいしょく), 米 (こめ)
988	flour	Phấn (bột gạo)	粉	flour, rice, part, eight, sword, dagger	10	26	Rice . . . part.		Parts of parts of parts of parts of rice... is flour. (Image: geishas patting their face with RICE flour to make it white. Not wheat flour...).	In the United States, part of every meal is made from flour.	4	2	フン、デシメートル	こ、こな	粉 (こ), 粉 (こな)
989	sticky	Niêm (niêm mạc)	粘	sticky, rice, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth	11	26	Rice . . . fortune-telling.		This is another way of fortune telling -- throw sticky rice against the wall, and look for the message in whatever sticks.	CONDI RICE was told by the FORTUNE TELLER that she will get STICKY...	JH	1	ネン	ねば.る	粘る (ねば.る)
990	grains	Lạp (hạt, hạt gạo...)	粒	grains, rice, vase, stand up	11	26	Rice . . . vase.		A sage is using rice to fill up a vase, but as an exercise in patience, he´s doing it grain by grain.	There´s a contest...whoever guesses the number of grains of rice in a vase wins.	JH	2	リュウ	つぶ	粒 (つぶ)
991	cosmetics	Trang (hoá trang)	粧	cosmetics, rice, shire, cave, soil, dirt, ground	12	26	Rice . . . cave . . . soil.		Condy Rice is actually white, but she uses special cosmetics made from dirt she found in a cave to appear black - it´s better for the political situation.	Modern cosmetics are just the descendants of the old RICE flour and CAVE DIRT (´cause it´s darker) used in the past.	JH		ショウ		
992	astray	Mê (mê cung)	迷	astray, rice, road	9	26	Road . . . United States.		The road that the USA is heading down is, well... let´s just say that they´re astray...	If you go astray, just follow the rice you dropped along the road to find your way back.	5	3	メイ	まよ.う	迷う (まよ.う)
993	chic	Tuý (tinh tuý)	粋	chic, rice, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle	10	26	Rice . . . game of cricket. (See frame 121.)		In extremely chic restaurants, you have to pay 90 bucks for a bowl of rice.	Americans think that tattoos with Chinese characters are chic, but nine out of ten times they end up with something trivial tattooed on their arm, like rice.	JH	1	スイ	いき	
995	provisions	Lượng (lương thực)	糧	provisions, rice, quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer	18	26	Rice . . . quantity.		"Imagine Japanese army provisions like obentou boxes, always containing the same quantity of rice. (thanks darg_sama, emphasizing quantity and the nuance of food ""rations"", ""food supply"": the kanji also appears in ""military provisions"" and ""army rice"")."	All Japanese provisions contain a certain quantity of rice... they eat it with just about every meal!	JH	1	リョウ、ロウ	かて	糧食 (かてしょく), 糧道 (りょうどう), 糧 (かて)
996	chrysanthemum	Cúc	菊	chrysanthemum, flowers, rice cooker, bound up, rice	11	26	Flower . . . bound up . . . rice.		Chrysanthemum flower consists of many tiny petals, just like many rice grains bound up together.	[+astgt] Chrysanthemum is a terrorist orginization whose sole objective is to tie up Condi Rice. One day, Condi Rice is standing outside when a group of chrysanthemum agents swoop in from the sides, bound her up with chrysanthemum rope, and dash off. They leave a lone yellow chrysanthemum flower on top of the bound Condi Rice as a sign to let her discoverers know who committed this brave and noble act.	JH	1	キク		
997	core	Áo (trong cùng)	奥	core, drop, pent in, rice, large, St. Bernard	12	26	A drop . . . pent in . . . rice . . . St. Bernard dog. Notice that the horizontal line of the bottom primitive doubles up as the final stroke for pent in.		In the core of a nuclear reactor, scientists have discovered a way to get power from rice, by penting it in under high pressure. It´s very dangerous, so they´ve trained a st. bernard dog to run things, he´s adding more drops of rice as necessary.	"奥さん　（おくさん) is a common way to say ""wife"". In the innermost core of the house, the bored pent up housewife drops her chores and consumes so much rice she becomes a very large housewife."	JH	2	オウ、オク	おく.まる、くま	奥 (おく)
998	number	Số	数	number, rice, woman, taskmaster	13	26	Rice . . . woman . . . taskmaster.		"Young taskmaster is learning numbers by watching women haul sacks of rice past him. ""One... two... four! No, wrong! Go back, go back!""."	Women toil in the rice fields carrying heavy sacks of rice to be numbered and counted by the taskmaster.	2	3	スウ、ス、サク、ソク、シュ	かず、かぞ.える、しばしば、せ.める、わずらわ.しい	数字 (すうじ), 数量 (すうりょう), 年数 (ねんすう), 数 (かず), 数える (かぞ.える)
999	watchtower	Lâu (toà nhà, lâu đài)	楼	watchtower, tree, wood, rice, woman	13	26	Tree . . . rice . . . woman.		"The young taskmaster (see number (#929)) uses a tree as a watchtower to get a better view of his rice-carrying women. ""I can seeeee you! One! Two! Three!""."	On the top of the woodmade watchtower we look for our enemies, who will come to steal our rice and our women.	JH	1	ロウ	たかどの	
1000	sort	Loại	類	sort, rice, large, St. Bernard, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	26	Rice . . . St. Bernard dog . . . head.		"Note this character means sort in the sense of what kind, I believe a better keyword would be ""variety"" and this character does appear in some dictionaries with the primary meaning as variety, my story: I´m in a Chinese restaurant and the waiter says ""What sort of rice would you like with your dog head?""."	"Condi Rice is the SORT of person that would give HEADaches to a BIG DOG.....This story has been edited because of people reporting it. I like it better without ""aches"", but whatever works for you!"	4	3	ルイ	たぐ.い	
1001	lacquer	Tất (sơn)	漆	lacquer, water, water droplets, water pistol, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice	14	26	Water . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . grains of rice.		LACQUER is a type of WATERY type of liquid used to protect items made from TREES, sort of an UMBRELLA of protection. So protective, you can carry around RICE in the LACQUERED, WOODEN product.	Water is falling from a tree onto the umbrella underneath which is protecting the rice underneath it. But it´s completely dry since the umbrella is lacquered.	JH	1	シツ	うるし	漆 (うるし)
1003	Esq.	Dạng (đa dạng, hình dạng)	様	Esq., tree, wood, sheep, grains of rice	14	26	The abbreviation Esq. will help associate this character with the honorific form of address to which it belongs. Its elements are: tree . . . sheep . . . grains of rice. Note that the final vertical stroke in the element for sheep is extended to form the first stroke for grains of rice.		Here we have the requirements to be counted among the ranks of the noble Esq. You must posses a forested estate, herds of sheep, and granary full of grains of rice.	This is -Sama, a generic high term of respect for someone in an unusual profession. If you met a person that created a wooden sheep that was squeezing a single grain of rice out of its ass, you´d definitely call that person -sama. Because that is impressive.	3	3	ヨウ、ショウ	さま、さん	様 (さま)
1004	request	Cầu	求	request, arrow, grains of rice	7	26	Let the drop in the upper right-hand corner of this character close the right angle off to make an arrowhead. Whenever we find the needle with that drop in an element that has no other special meaning, we will take advantage of this primitive meaning. At the bottom, we see the grains of rice, the vertical line doubling up for the two elements. Do not confuse with petition (Frame 143).		"Enemy: ""Any final requests?"" // MacGyver: ""Just an arrowhead and some grains of rice."" (MacGyver then throws the grains of rice at the enemy and uses the arrowhead to cut his hands free from the rope.)."	Robin Hood holds his rich victim at arrowpoint and kindly requests that he hands over his grains of rice.	4	3	キュウ、グ	もと.める	求める (もと.める)
1005	ball	Cầu	球	ball, king, jewel, ball, request, arrow, grains of rice	11	26	Ball . . . request.		Someone files a request to see the family jewels and, to their surprise, you show them your balls!	The KING REQUESTS your presence at the ball ... game.	3	3	キュウ	たま	球 (たま)
1006	salvation	Cứu	救	salvation, request, arrow, grains of rice, taskmaster	11	26	Request . . . taskmaster.		Like in the biblical sense, someone looks skyward and makes a request for salvation from this horrible taskmaster...	For salvation you have to request forgiveness from God (the ultimate taskmaster).	4	1	キュウ	すく.う	救う (すく.う)
1007	bamboo	Trúc	竹	bamboo	6	26	Bamboo grows upwards, like a straight nail, and at each stage of its growth (which legend associates with the arrival of the new moon) there is a jointed rootstock (the first stroke). Two such bamboo stalks are pictured here.	* As a primitive, the meaning remains the same, but the vertical lines are severely abbreviated so that they can take their place at the top where, like flowers, they are always to be found.	Pandas like to eat bamboo. I´m using panda as the primitive name when it fits the story. ^__^.	Two reclining victims impaled on bamboo spheres...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チク　松竹梅　しょうちくばい(pine, bamboo, plum).	1	2	チク	たけ	竹 (たけ)
1008	laugh	Tiếu	笑	laugh, bamboo, heavens	10	26	Bamboo . . . heavens.		When the people tried to build a tower of bamboo to reach the heavens, the gods just laughed and laughed.	That Panda is in bamboo heaven! Just look at him laugh!	4	3	ショウ	わら.う、え.む	笑む (え.む), 笑う (わら.う)
1009	bamboo hat	Lạp (cái nón, cái lồng bàn)	笠	bamboo hat, bamboo, vase, stand up	11	26	Bamboo . . . vase.		The bamboo vase was beautifully crafted, but the tourist didn´t know what it was and wore it as a little bamboo hat.	The bamboo part is easy. Just remember that this kanji refers to those particular bamboo hats that are worn primarily by Buddhist monks, who always seem to stand outside of train stations, collecting alms.	Names		リュウ	かさ	
1010	bamboo grass	Sậy (cỏ sậy)	笹	bamboo grass, bamboo, generation	11	26	Bamboo . . . generation.		The bamboo generation smokes bamboo grass.	"“One of the most attractive aspects of bamboo is that it is a renewable resource; it takes less than a year for a stalk to reach maturity, compared to the decades for most trees, whether needle or broadleaf.” -- Mnemonic : ""bamboo grass is the next bamboo generation""."	Names	1		ささ	
1012	muscle	Cân (gân cơ)	筋	muscle, bamboo, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power, muscle, arnold	12	26	Bamboo . . . part of the body . . . power. Here we see how the primitive meaning of muscle was derived from the kanji for power.		Muscle is part of the body that gives strength, and can be both supple and tense like the bamboo.	Lifting BAMBOO STICKS is an old way for your BODY to put on lots of MUSCLE.	6	1	キン	すじ	筋 (すじ)
1013	box	Tương, sương (cái hộp)	箱	box , bamboo, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye	15	26	Bamboo . . . inter-.		The best kind of BOX is made from BAMBOO sticks that are INTER-laced to make it air tight. Just picture such a box and you´ve mastered this kanji.	I think of a box made of inter-locking of bamboo strips.	3	3	ソウ	はこ	箱 (はこ)
1014	writing brush	Bút	筆	writing brush, bamboo, brush	12	26	Bamboo . . . brush.		Bamboo is the best material from which to make a brush if you want it to be a writing brush.	Bamboo would make an excellent writing brush as the ink could flow through the hollow center like an ink pen... 　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ヒツ　鉛筆　えんぴつ(lead pencil).	3	2	ヒツ	ふで	筆 (ふで)
1015	cylinder	Đồng (cái ống)	筒	cylinder, bamboo, same, monks, hood, one, mouth	12	26	Bamboo . . . monk.		Seriously, all BAMBOO sticks look the SAME, just long CYLINDERS. Should the story be more complicated?	Fully-grown bamboo consists of a number of cylinder-like sections, all exactly the same.	JH	2	トウ	つつ	筒 (つつ)
1016	etc.	Đẳng (?)	等	etc., bamboo, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	12	26	Bamboo . . . Buddhist temple.		The Bamboo Buddhist Temple has bamboo buddhas, bamboo buildings, bamboo benches, bamboo beds, bamboo bowls, etc. etc. etc.	"So what´d you see in Japan? - ""Bamboo, temples...etc.""."	3	3	トウ	ひと.しい、など、-ら	等しい (ひと.しい)
1017	calculate	Toán	算	calculate, bamboo, eye, two hands	14	26	Bamboo . . . eyes . . . two hands.		Before the time of digital calculators, people used old school calculators made of bamboo (abacus). It´s not as easy as a calculator, but you don´t need any batteries either. All you need are your eyes and your two hands.	Tip : you may see this as an Abacus, which is used to calculate. This particular ancient chinese Abacus has eyeballs in place of beads, and its frame is made of bamboo. You´d be amazed at how fast people can calculate with this, especially if they can use both hands at once to move the ... eyeballs.	2	2	サン	そろ	
1018	solution	Đáp	答	solution, bamboo, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	12	26	Bamboo . . . fit.		The solution to this puzzle is, like the match stick game, to make the bamboo pieces fit together.	For the frustrated housewife the solution came in form of a BAMBOO stick that FITS her well.	2	4	トウ	こた.える、こた.え	答え (こた.え), 答える (こた.える)
1019	scheme	Sách (đối sách)	策	scheme, bamboo, tree, wood, belt	12	26	Bamboo . . . belted tree (See frame 446).		(Elaboration of jameserb´s story:) A clever scheme from Wile E Coyote -- he ties one of those rubber belts to some trees and uses it to launch a bamboo spear at the roadrunner...	The temples in kyoto belt bamboo around trees in a scheme to protect them from the huge number of tourists. (true story)-----------対策　　たいさく　　measure, countermeasure.	6	1	サク		
1020	register	Bộ	簿	register, bamboo, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue	19	26	Bamboo . . . water . . . acupuncturist.		Note : the keyword is not a verb, think of a record book. This acupuncturist who uses bamboo in place of flowers to dilute water into his patients (see frame 227), managed somehow to appear on the register of acupuncturists. Chances are, he won´t stay on the register for long. My image is close to that of gorgon´s story.	This doctor dilutes (see 227) his patients with bamboo stalks rather than the flowers of a standard diluting acupuncturist hence he needs to be on the Bamboo Accumpunturist Diltuers (BAD) register. Pumping that much water into a body can be dangerous; see the huge bamboo stems with gallons of water sloshing in and out of the patient.	JH	1	ボ		
1021	fabricate	Trúc	築	fabricate, bamboo, barge, craft, mediocre, wind, drop, tree, wood	16	26	Bamboo . . . craft . . . mediocre . . . wood/tree.		Bamboo crafting is a mediocre substitute for wood when you are building or fabricating a house. While it may look good and might attract a chick (ちく) or two, the kids´ll (きず) just tear it to pieces as its not sturdy enough.	A bamboo fabrication is a mediocre substitute for wood.	5	2	チク	きず.く	築く (きず.く)
1023	person	Nhân	人	person	2	27	The character for enter (Frame 842) showed someone walking inwards (in terms of the direction of writing), the one for person, shown here, represents someone walking outwards.	* As a primitive, it can keep its kanji form except when it appears to the left (its normal position), where it is made to stand up in the form ⺅ (Similar to イ). The primitive meaning is another matter. The abstract notion of person so often has a relation to the meaning of the kanji that confusion readily sets in. So many of the previous stories have included people in them that simply to use person for a primitive meaning would be risky. We need to be more specific, to focus on one particular person. Try to choose someone who has not figured in the stories so far, perhaps a colorful member of the family or a friend whom you have known for a long time. That individual will appear again and again, so be sure to choose someone who excites your imagination.	"Behold Mister T (of ""A-Team"" fame)! I chose Mr.T because he´s sure to make amusing stories. He is a very versatile character since he´s both the big, tough guy and the “moralistic” person, telling kids not “to do drugs or alcohol”. He is easy to imagine, the heavy gold chains are probably the most prominent feature of the character. And last but not least you can always pepper your story with the famous line “I pity da foo!” * Fittingly, on the left side of the kanji, it looks like a “T”."	[I appreciate some people´s occasional habit of using P for person in shared stories. That makes it easier to substitute Mr. T, Captain Picard, or whomever else a student is using as person.].	1	5	ジン、ニン	ひと、-り、-と	人道 (じんどう), 人員 (じんいん), 成人 (せいじん), 人 (ひと)
1024	assistant	Tá	佐	assistant, person, left, by one’s side, craft	7	27	Person . . . left.		"Mr T´s assistant is on his left. Why? Because Mr T has this bad habit of suddenly extending his right arm (what with all the boxing that he did), and his assistant got inadvertently punched in the face more than once (ouch). So now his assistant is always to his left side, much safer - ""Stay on my left, foo!""."	"On your right is your ""right-hand man"" that you credit for all your success....on the left...... is your assistant who does all the grunt work and gets no credit for anything..."	JH	1	サ		
1026	however	Đản (nhưng, do đó)	但	however, person, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor	7	27	Person . . . nightbreak.		However drunk Mr T is when he comes back to his place, he always get up at nightbreak. “I pity da foo who gets up after nightbreak !”, says Mr. T.	MR.T leads a busy life, however he always makes sure to be in bed by NIGHTBREAK, however much he might want to stay up watching A-Team re-runs.	JH	1	タン	ただ.し	但し (ただ.し)
1027	dwell	Trú	住	dwell, person, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	7	27	Person . . . candlestick.		When Mr T shows people round his dwelling he takes a big candlestick (with a candle in it!) so that the light shows off his collection of bling bling jewellery.	Mister T dwells in a big brass candlestick, the flame of which serves as a beacon for the boats in the nearby harbour. Sometimes in the morning, Mister T has to clear the wax that has landed and solidified in front of the door.	3	4	ジュウ、ヂュウ、チュウ	す.む、す.まう、-ず.まい	住まう (す.まう), 住む (す.む)
1028	rank	Vị	位	rank, person, vase, stand up	7	27	Person . . . vase.		Mr T ranks first position in the stand-up competition (doing knee flexions). Just picture him doing hundreds of these while the rest of the participants are already completely exhausted after a mere hundred.	Rank A person´s standing.	4	3	イ	くらい、ぐらい	位 (くらい)
1029	go-between	Trọng (giữa, trọng tài)	仲	go-between, person, in, stick, mouth	6	27	Person . . . in.		When negotiating a hostage situation, Mr. T acted as the go-between, or person in the middle, for law enforcement and the terrorist.	Go-between The person in the middle.	4	2	チュウ	なか	仲 (なか)
1030	body	Thể	体	body, person, origin, book, tree, wood, one	7	27	Person . . . book.		Mister T works out his body (body-building), using two piles of books (i.e. an exercise that can be done at home with two chairs, similar to push-ups but working mostly the shoulders, trapezius and triceps).	Mr. T works out his body then rips a book apart to test is body. His favorite to destroy is Dianetics.	2	4	タイ、テイ	からだ、かたち	体格 (たいかく), 人体 (じんたい), 主体 (しゅたい), 体 (からだ)
1031	remote	Du (xa xăm, du khách)	悠	permanence, remote, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, heart	11	27	Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . heart.		Mr. T ventured out into a remote area to visit with his wise, old taskmaster who must use a walking stick to get around and originally gave Mr. T the heart to fight crime for the good of the community.	Yoda, the Jedi with the walking stick who was a hard taskmaster for Luke but who had a big heart, was permanently exiled on the remote planet Dagobah.	JH	1	ユウ		
1032	affair	Kiện (sự kiện)	件	affair, person, cow	6	27	Person . . . cow.		"Note: this kanji refers to event or case. Current Affair headline: Mr. T has affair with cow. ""It´s only animal ´man´ enough for me""."	"I´m having a hard time keep straight just which animal Mr. T is having an affair with. chamcham´s story made me realize that Mr. T is not having an ""affair"", he´s having an ""heifair."" Get it?"	5	3	ケン	くだん	
1033	attend	Sĩ (làm việc, quan)	仕	attend, person, samurai	5	27	Person . . . samurai. The key word means to wait on someone or serve them.		Back in the day, a person who stands beside a samurai is usually attending to them or working for them.	"[+fuaburisu] Mr T attends to Tom Cruise in the Last Samurai, who is doing hara-kiri. Imagine Tom Cruise outside in the final scene, stabbing his knife into his stomach, while Mr T looks patiently on. ""I pity da foo....no, really.""."	3	4	シ、ジ	つか.える	仕事 (しごと), 出仕 (しゅつし), 仕える (つか.える)
1034	other	Than (khác)	他	other, person, scorpion	5	27	Person . . . scorpion.		Old latin saying: homo hominis scorpio (people are scorpions to other people).	It´s one or the other: fight Mr. T, or be thrown into the scorpion pit.	3	3	タ	ほか	
1035	prostrated	Phục (phục kích)	伏	prostrated, person, chihuahua, dog, large, drop	6	27	Person . . . chihuahua.		Don´t need a silly story for this one: prostration is when a person puts themselves in a low position like a dog, as an extreme gesture of humility.	"Mr T has beaten up the chihuahua, who lies prostrated in front of him. ""Now,"" Mr T says, ""I quiero some Taco Bell!""."	JH	1	フク	ふ.せる、ふ.す	伏す (ふ.す), 伏せる (ふ.せる)
1036	transmit	Truyền	伝	transmit, person, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	6	27	Person . . . rising cloud. Hint: the Amerindians' smoke signal scan help provide a good image for this kanji, whose key word is meant to include transmissions of all sorts.		"Mister T transmits a message with rising clouds (smoke) signals, to a nearby American Indian tribe. The smoke signals spell : ""I p-i-t-y y-o-u f-o-o !""."	Hanging one-handed under Cloud City, the Jedi-in-training Luke, uses the force to transmit his distress to Leia.	4	3	デン、テン	つた.わる、つた.える、つた.う、つだ.う、-づた.い、つて	伝う (つた.う), 伝える (つた.える), 伝わる (つた.わる)
1037	Buddha	Phật	仏	buddha, person, elbow	4	27	Person . . . elbow.		"Mr. T says, ""I ain´t afraid o´ no foo! I´ll give anyone an elbow to the face, I don´t care if it´s Buddha himself!""."	Buddha is a person who always seems to have his elbows bent.	5	2	ブツ、フツ	ほとけ	仏 (ほとけ)
1038	rest	Hưu	休	rest, person, tree, wood	6	27	Person . . . tree. Be sure not to confuse with relax (Frame 202).		Mr T resting by a tree.	Chuck norris rests againsts the tree, but wait, no... the tree rests and stands against him.	1	5	キュウ	やす.む、やす.まる、やす.める	休まる (やす.まる), 休む (やす.む), 休める (やす.める)
1039	provisional	Giả (giả thuyết, giả dối)	仮	sham, provisional, person, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	6	27	Person . . . anti-.		"Mr. T was offered a job in the Iraq Provisional Authority, but he turned it down, because he´s anti-war. ""I pity da fool thinks this sand pit worth invadin´ when our schools be in such sad shape!""."	"Mr. T is anti anything provisional. ""I pity da foo´ who´s so indecisive that he can´t make nothin´ permanent""."	5	1	カ、ケ	かり、かり-	仮面 (かめん), 仮定 (かてい), 仮装 (かそう), 仮 (かり)
1041	chief	Bá (thúc bá)	伯	chief, person, white, dove	7	27	Person . . . white dove.		If Mr T was white I am sure he would have been commander in chief of the USA, he just the sort of clown Americans love to vote for. (NB: I tried with the indian chief motif but kept adding feathers by mistake).	Mr T was originally supposed to be the chief of the A-Team, but then the producers realized that America didn´t want to see a Black guy as the chief of a prime-time TV show. So here, we see Mr T doing a bunch of cocaine, and then spreading it all over his face to look white, and trying out for the part of Hannibal. The directors were so impressed that they let him stunt double for Hannibal in a few episodes. OR, Mr T chiefin´ on some crack cocaine. You make the call.	JH	1	ハク		
1042	vulgar	Tục (thông tục, tục lệ)	俗	vulgar, person, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth	9	27	"Person . . . valley. The key word should be taken in its older sense of ""popular"" or ""commonplace."""		"Mr. T says, ""Don´t be like them valley girls, always speaking vulgar language and acting all vulgar! They ain´t nothing but foos!""."	Mr T meets the vulgar (common) people of the valley and participates in the vulgar customs (folkways). Looking at the vulgar (common) people, Mr T says - “I pity you foo!”.	JH	1	ゾク		
1043	faith	Tín	信	faith, person, say, words, keitai, mouth	9	27	Person . . . words.		"Mr. T has faith in the Word of God. (Image: Mr. T kneeling and prayering in front of a bible. ""Pity me, fool."")."	Faith is believing that a person will be true to his word.	4	3	シン		
1044	excellent	Giai (giai nhân)	佳	excellent, person, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	8	27	Person . . . ivy. To distinguish from excel (Frame 980), eminent (Frame 52), esteem (Frame 196), and exquisite (Frame 130), give the key word its own unique connotation.		(ivy-league university -> great university. Ivy man -> great man) Mr T wants to go to an excellent school, so he enrolls in Harvard, an ivy-league school.	"Bill and Ted are walking through medieval Europe when they see a humongous square jewel. ""Excellent!"" they both yell. But only after grabbing it do they realize it is chained to the neck of Mr. T, who grimaces angrily at them. ""Bogus!"" they cry, and totally run away."	JH	1	カ		
1045	reliant	Ỷ	依	reliant, person, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment	8	27	Person . . . garment.		Mr T is reliant (depends on) on his garment (the gold chains).	Mr. T. is so self-reliant he even makes his own garments.	JH	2	イ、エ	よ.る	依頼 (いらい), 依拠 (いきょ), 依然 (いぜん)
1046	example	Liệt (ví dụ)	例	example, person, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber	8	27	Person . . . file.		Mr T shows the example to the kids, and stays in the file (at supermarket, ...). “I pity da foo who does not follow my example !”.	When Mr. T. wants to make an example out of a group of people, he lines them up all single file and knocks them all out with one punch!	4	3	レイ	たと.える	例える (たと.える)
1047	individual	Cá (cá thể)	個	individual, person, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	10	27	Person . . . harden.		"This keyword gave me trouble, I could write the kanji from memory but could not remember the keyword the other way around. In such case the dictionary definition can be helpful : ""Middle English, single, indivisible"". Here we have Mr. T. who is so hardened (all the body workout he´s had) that he became in-dividual, that is, in-divisible. ""I pity da foo who can be divided into smaller units.""."	"Mr. T insists that people be individual. He appears on television, saying, ""Being an individual is hard! But you gotta do it! Harden yourself, and be individual!""."	5	2	コ、カ		
1048	healthy	Kiện (khoẻ mạnh)	健	healthy, person, build, brush, stretch	11	27	Person . . . build.		"Mr. T in a public service announcement yells, ""I´m healthy because every day I build a food pyramid, foo!""."	"Mr.T, sir, how do you stay so healthy? I asked. ""Simple, foo,"" he answered, ""you gotta build the body up by bodybuilding!""."	4	1	ケン	すこ.やか	健やか (すこ.やか)
1049	side	Trắc (bên cạnh)	側	side, person, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber	11	27	Person . . . rule. See frame 92 for help.		Mr. T rulezzz! I am on his side!	Chuck Norris´s rules are easy to live by, just be on his side.	4	3	ソク	かわ、がわ、そば	側 (かわ)
1050	waiter	Thị (người hầu)	侍	waiter, person, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue	8	27	"Person . . . Buddhist temple. The key word is deceptively modern, but the kanji is actually another way of writing ""samurai."" Be careful not to confuse with attend (Frame 1033)."		Mr. T infiltrates the secret samurai Buddhist temple as a waiter with a tray of green tea. (Careful: attend (#960)).	Remember the kanji for wait, 待. Well, now we have a waiter, and he´s dropped a dish. See: 侍! 待 crash 侍.	JH	1	ジ、シ	さむらい、はべ.る	侍 (さむらい)
1051	halt	Đình (đình chỉ)	停	halt, person, pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike	11	27	Person . . . pavilion.		Halt fool - Mr T acting as a bouncer at the pavillion.	"Mister T makes a halt at the African pavilion at the World´s Fair. He eats all the snacks on offer, and chats up the ladies - ""“I pity da foo who does not halt by your pavilion, it´s the best !""."	4	2	テイ	と.める、と.まる	
1052	price	Trị (giá trị)	値	price, person, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook	10	27	Person . . . straightaway.		Mr. T (person) tells the used car salesman to tell him the real price straight away, and when he doesn´t he throws him through the windshield.	"Mr. T is shopping for new chains. He knows what he wants and money isn´t an issue. ""Cut the jibba-jabba, tell me the price, straightaway!""."	6	3	チ	ね、あたい	値 (あたい), 値 (ね)
1053	emulate	Phỏng (mô phỏng)	倣	emulate, person, set free, compass, direction, taskmaster	10	27	Person . . . set free.		A person is truly set free when there is no longer any felt need to emulate any type of person (for parents, boss, community, etc).	The black slave who was set free (#496) decides to emulate Mr. T, his role model. He uses his compass to head to Cali to start anew.	JH	1	ホウ	なら.う	倣う (なら.う)
1055	overthrow	Đảo	倒	overthrow, person, arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber	10	27	Person . . . arrival.		The A-Team are planning to overthrow the government. However, they can´t do a damn thing until Mr T arrives.	In Return of the Jedi, after a climactic light sabre battle, Luke and Vader overthrow the emporer (literally throwing him over the balcony).	JH	3	トウ	たお.れる、-だお.れ、たお.す	倒す (たお.す), 倒れる (たお.れる)
1056	spy	Trinh (trinh thám)	偵	spy, person, upright, magic wand, augury, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	27	Person . . . upright.		"Mr. T is a terrible spy. He walks around upright. ""Why should I hide?! I´ve got nothing to be ashamed of!""."	NOTE: The second primitive is upright, not eminent. There is an error in the book.	JH	1	テイ		
1057	Buddhist priest	Tăng	僧	buddhist priest, person, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	13	27	Person . . . increase.		While a waiter at the Buddhist temple (see FRAME 976), Mr T increases in wisdom and becomes a Buddhist priest.	"Mr. T and the artist formerly known as Prince, who by the way is a buddhist, want to form a new heavy metal band. Instead of ""Judas Priest"" they will be called ""Buddhist Priest""."	JH	1	ソウ		
1058	hundred million	Ức (trăm triệu)	億	hundred million, person, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart	15	27	Person . . . idea.		Mr. T has an clear idea of what he would do if he ever got hundred million dollar. (I guess it would be a enormous gold chain !).	"Mr. T´s bright idea is to get a hundred million kids to vow not to use drugs. ""C´mon, foo! Sign the paper!""."	4	2	オク		
1059	ceremony	Nghi (nghi thức)	儀	ceremony, person, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta	15	27	Person . . . righteousness.		Mr. T is the master of ceremonies because he is a righteous dude.	Mr. T was briefly a rapper, that is an M.C., that is a master of CEREMONIES (the origin of the phrase). But he sang only RIGHTEOUS songs, no cursing or anything like that. (all true: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_rBidCkJxo ).	JH	1	ギ		
1060	reparation	Thường (bồi thường)	償	reparation, person, prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	17	27	Person . . . prize.		"Mr. T says, ""This ain´t no prize, foo! This is reparations for slavery!""."	NOTE: do not confuse with compensation (#476)賠. However, 賠 is always used in conjunction 賠償... But 償 is used in various other compounds. Mr. T sold all his jewelry to give as reparations to slave families. The governent tried to honor his charity by giving him a prize, but it was a shitty outhouse filled with clams.	JH	1	ショウ	つぐな.う	償う (つぐな.う)
1061	hermit	Tiên (thần tiên, đạo sĩ)	仙	hermit, person, mountain	5	27	Person . . . mountain.		A HERMIT is a PERSON who lives in the MOUNTAINS.	"After living as an hermit (recluse) for a while in the mountains, Mister T becomes an immortal mountain fairy (""fairy"" is another meaning of this kanji)."	JH	1	セン、セント		
1062	sponsor	Thôi (thôi thúc)	催	sponsor, person, mountain, turkey	13	27	Hermit . . . turkey. Note what has happened to the mountain in the element for hermit. In order to make room for the turkey, it was raised and condensed.		"And now a word from our sponsor. We see Mr. T, doing a sort of George Foreman thing, grilling Mountain Turkeys. ""I pity da foo who don´t have a Mr. T grill!""."	Mister T sponsors a meeting in the mountains (he´s an hermit), talking over a megaphone “I pity da foo who does not come to my event !”. The old turkey comes, and Mister T catches it and cooks it for dinner, muahaha.	JH	1	サイ	もよう.す、もよお.す	催す (もよお.す)
1063	humanity	Nhân (nhân loại)	仁	humanity, person, two	4	27	To refer to the fullness of humanity that can only be achieved in dialogue with another (person . . . two), Confucius used this character.		The beginning of humanity required at least TWO people. Mr. T and Mrs. T!	Mr. T shows his humanity by giving two bucks to every homeless person he sees.	6	1	ジン、ニ、ニン		仁義 (じんぎ), 仁術 (ひとしじゅつ)
1064	scorn	Vũ (sỉ nhục, khinh nhờn)	侮	scorn, person, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts	8	27	Every . . . person.		Mr. T has scorn for every fool.	People full of scorn tend to hate every person (including themselves).	JH	1	ブ	あなど.る、あなず.る	侮る (あなど.る)
1065	use	Sử	使	use, person, history, length, stick, mouth, tucked under the arm	8	27	Person . . . officer.		Mr. T uses the officer as a punching bag.	Of course Mr. T will tell a police officer if he catches someone using drugs, foo!	3	4	シ	つか.う、つか.い、-つか.い、-づか.い	使う (つか.う)
1066	convenience	Tiện (thuận tiện)	便	convenience, person, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm	9	27	"Person . . . grow late. Hint: this kanji also means that unmentionable material that one disposes of when one goes to the ""conveniences."""		Mr. T loves the convenience of the new konbini. Not only does it stay open even if it grows late, they have brand new toilets, and a Post Office!	Mr. T takes a dump on the floor of a convenience store. Well, it was growing late and he couldn´t wait. He pities the fool who will have to clean it up!	4	3	ベン、ビン	たよ.り	便利 (べんり), 便法 (べんぽう), 簡便 (かんべん), 便り (たよ.り)
1067	double	Bội	倍	double, person, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth	10	27	Person . . . muzzle. Do not confuse with the kanji for duplicate (Frame 504).		Mr. T keeps his double muzzled ... he wants all the glory.	Mr T, like many holywood stars, has a butt double who is used only for scenes where T´s buttocks are exposed (he has issues with bearing his behind). The butt double has no speaking parts - he is muzzled. Of course T himself isn´t he´s rambling on about pity and foo.	3	2	バイ		
1068	tenderness	Ưu (ưu việt, ưu thế)	優	tenderness, person, melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs	17	27	Person . . . melancholy.		"The A-Team is on a mission to help Hamlet. With uncharacteristic tenderness, Mr. T consoles the melancholy Hamlet. ""No, I really DO pity the poor foo. There, there little guy...take my hanky"". (Careful: benevolence (#885)."	Someone can´t be melancholy for long if just one person treats them with a little tenderness.	6	3	ユウ、ウ	やさ.しい、すぐ.れる、まさ.る	優れる (すぐ.れる), 優しい (やさ.しい)
1069	fell	Phạt (thảo phạt, đánh, nện)	伐	fell, person, fiesta	6	27	Person . . . fiesta. Hint: recall the German legend of the English missionary, Saint Boniface, who felled the sacred oak tree dedicated to Thor at Geismar (in lower Hessia), occasioning a great fiesta for the Christians in the neighborhood to mark the defeat of their pagan competition. Be sure to fit your special person into the story if you use it.		"At a fiesta, Mr. T tries to knock down a large pinata, but in his overly enthusiastic swings to get ""the sucka,"" he actually FELLS the tree the piñata is hanging from, crushing some party goers. “I pity da fools who got crushed by my FELLED tree!”."	Mr T at the fiesta fell over blind drunk.	JH	1	バツ、ハツ、カ、ボチ	き.る、そむ.く、う.つ	
1070	inn	Túc (kí túc xá)	宿	inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove	11	27	House . . . person . . . hundred.		The Toyoko Inn can house 100 people or 1 Mr. T.	The inn is like a big house that can addomodate a hundred persons. Only this time, there´s just Mister T and he´s booked all the rooms!	3	3	シュク	やど、やど.る、やど.す	宿 (やど), 宿す (やど.す), 宿る (やど.る)
1071	wound	Thương	傷	wound, person, reclining, lying down, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	13	27	Person . . . reclining . . . piggy bank.		If someone doesn't have a fat piggy bank to cover their medical costs and happen to get wounded somewhere, they'll be reclining there forever.	Mr. T gets wounded by reclining on his piggy bank.	6	1	ショウ	きず、いた.む、いた.める	傷む (いた.む), 傷める (いた.める), 傷 (きず)
1072	protect	Bảo	保	protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood	9	27	Person . . . mouth . . . tree.		"Mr. T opens his mouth from the top of the tree saying ""I pitty da foo who don´t protect the trees!""."	Tip: Heisig later combines mouth and tree into 呆 dumbfounded (#2181). Story: Your person (Mr. T. or whoever) is dumbfounded when told to protect the bad guys rather than fight them.	5	1	ホ、ホウ	たも.つ	保つ (たも.つ)
1073	praise	Bao (khen ngợi)	褒	praise, top hat, protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood, scarf	15	27	"Top hat and scarf . . . protect. Note that the ""tree"" in protect becomes a wooden pole here."		Mr. T is praised for his protecting of the trees by being given a top hat and scarf which he wears over his mohawk and chains, respectively.	"An old lady puts a top hat and scarf on her poodle and praises him for how cute he is. The dog thinks, ""Someone protect me from this psycho!""...　RTK2:　ホウ　過褒　かほう(excessive praise)."	JH	1	ホウ	ほ.める	褒める (ほ.める)
1074	greatness	Kiệt	傑	greatness, person, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening, tree, wood	13	27	Person . . . sunglasses . . . tree.		My wise person says greatness does not come from wearing shades (sunglasses) but from planting trees to shade everyone.	"Mr T stands in front of you, his greatness radiating out from him so brightly. You need to put on your sunglasses and hide behind a tree to even talk to the guy. ""Recognise, foo!""."	JH	1	ケツ	すぐ.れる	
1075	adhere	Phó (giao phó, phụ thuộc)	付	adhere, person, glue	5	27	"Person . . . glue. The few cases in which this character serves as a primitive should include some connotation of ""adhering to"" that distinguishes it from ""glued to."" Two examples follow."		賀 TO EVERYONE WHO MADE IT TO 千 kanji!! Remember, after this, you´ll be 読ing japanese novels, the news, and the internet like a native. 吉 to ALL of you in your amazing japanese 往. :).	If a PERSON ADHERES to something, they stick to it like GLUE.	4	3	フ	つ.ける、-つ.ける、-づ.ける、つ.け、つ.け-、-つ.け、-づ.け、-づけ、つ.く、-づ.く、つ.き、-つ.き、-つき、-づ.き、-づき	付く (つ.く), 付ける (つ.ける)
1076	token	Phù (phù hiệu)	符	token, bamboo, adhere, sellotape, person, glue	11	27	Bamboo . . . adhere.		I dropped my token down the drain, so I used a piece of bamboo with chewing gum on the end to retrieve it.	At the arcade, Mr. T adheres a bamboo rod to his token so that he can put it in the machine and pull it out repeatedly.	JH	2	フ		
1077	municipality (đô thị tự trị)	Phủ (chính phủ)	府	borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue	8	27	Cave . . . adhere.		A municipality, like any type of government, adheres to having caves for offices (see government office (#591)).	Even if a municipality is in a cave, you have to adhere to its policies.	4	2	フ		
1078	responsibility	Nhiệm (trách nhiệm, nhiệm vụ)	任	responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai	6	27	Person . . . porter.		It is always Mr. T´s responsibility to be the porter and carry around everyone´s luggage because he´s so strong.	In pregnancy (#507), the woman was the porter for the first nine months. Now, as a new father, Mr.T is assuming all the RESPONSIBILITIES that comes with it. Can´t you just see him here as the new porter, wearing a harness with a his little dude (who already has a little matching mohawk)?	5	3	ニン	まか.せる、まか.す	任す (まか.す), 任せる (まか.せる)
1079	fare	Nhẫm (tiền thuê)	賃	fare, responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	27	Responsibility . . . shells/money.		It´s your own responsibility to pay the bus fare with the correct number of shells/money.	"In Japan they have automatic ticket gates so you cant easily cheat on your train fare. In England however the ticket gates are fairly open. It is a different kind of system. In England you are given the RESPONSIBILITY to put in the right amount of MONEY, but if you are caught cheating, the fines are stiff and you feel like a real CHINCHIN. ""un.CHIN""."	6	1	チン		
1080	substitute	Đại (đại diện)	代	substitute, person, arrow	5	27	Person . . . arrow.		Mr. T shot the substitute teacher with an arrow.	"Mister T substitutes an arrow for a toothpick -- The keyword meaning is to replace something with something else, to act for another, to represent. It´s best to stick to the first meaning, because the last two are very close to ""mediator"" which will come in frame 1761. The idea here is that the arrow is not a toothpick, neither it is changed into one, but it can substitute for one."	3	4	ダイ、タイ	か.わる、かわ.る、かわ.り、-がわ.り、か.える、よ、しろ	代理 (だいり), 世代 (せだい), 現代 (げんだい), 代える (か.える), 代わる (か.わる), 代 (しろ), 代 (よ)
1081	sack	Đại (cái túi)	袋	sack, substitute, person, arrow, garment	11	27	Substitute . . . garment.		A sack is an easy substitute for a garment.	"A worker who was recently sacked from his job, is wearing a sack of potatoes as a substitute garment (naked otherwise), in some kind of protest. The kanji is close to frame 1547 ""bag"", and although the later really refers to a ""straw sack"", I use the image of a sack of potatoes here, and that of a ""plastic bag"" for frame 1547. The keywords would have been better swapped in my opinion, but the relevancy is not so important at this point (see notes of Lesson 31 in the book)."	JH	2	タイ、ダイ	ふくろ	袋 (ふくろ)
1082	lend	Thải	貸	lend, substitute, person, arrow, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	27	Substitute . . . shells/money.		In order for the bank to lend you money, you need to put up some sort of collateral as a substitute for the money.	The poor substitute teacher asks the class to lend him some money for the bus fare home.	5	4	タイ	か.す、か.し-、かし-	貸す (か.す)
1083	change	Hoá	化	change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground	4	27	Person . . . spoon.		"Referring to a scene in the movie ""The Matrix"" where a girl bends a spoon with the power of her mind alone, I imagine Mister T who changes a spoon into something else (maybe the waiter forgot to bring knives or forks). Note: as a primitive, it can help to use the image of ""spare change"", this can help you keep it distinct from other similar kanji such as ""shape"" or ""turn into""."	Mr. T reaches into his wallet for some spare change but it has all changed into spoons.	3	3	カ、ケ	ば.ける、ば.かす、ふ.ける、け.する	化石 (かせき), 化学 (かがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 化かす (ば.かす), 化ける (ば.ける)
1084	flower	Hoa	花	flowers, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground	7	27	Flower . . . change.		The flowers change with the seasons.	The flower is the essence of transience. So, the conceptual flower involves both the concept of flower plus change.	1	4	カ、ケ	はな	花 (はな)
1085	freight	Hoá (hàng hoá)	貨	freight, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	27	Change . . . shells.		Freight is the shells (money) paid to change the location of something big. Don´t confuse with the similar 賃 fare (#1004).	This is a freight train that runs on spare change. Imagine getting on the freight train with a bunch of spare change. You put in some change and it starts up...goes for a few minutes, then starts to slow down. You look at the slot..there´s actually a slot for spare change and one for regular shells. Your call, but it seems to prefer spare change over shells.	4	2	カ	たから	
1086	lean	Khuynh (khuynh hướng)	傾	lean, change, person, about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	27	Change . . . head. The key word has the sense of leaning on or toward someone or something.		Mr. T gave a girl some change to lean over and give him head.	Leaning over changes the position of the head...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ケイ　傾向　けいこう(tendency).	JH	2	ケイ	かたむ.く、かたむ.ける、かたぶ.く、かた.げる、かし.げる	傾く (かたむ.く), 傾ける (かたむ.ける)
1087	what	Hà (hà cớ, cớ gì)	何	what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike	7	27	Person . . . can.		What can Mr T do? ´You mean: what can´t MR T do, you fool´.	What can´t Mr. T not do?	2	5	カ	なに、なん、なに-、なん-	何 (なに)
1088	baggage	Hà (hành lí)	荷	baggage, flowers, what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike	10	27	Flowers . . . what.		TSA guard: What´s in the baggage?! It´s just flowers, I swear!	"Your girlfriend arrives at the airport. You give her flowers, but she brushes you off and says ""here, carry my BAGGAGE."" Dumbfounded at her rudeness, you say, ""what?""."	3	2	カ	に	荷 (に)
1089	sagacious	Tuấn	俊	sagacious, person, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs	9	27	Person . . . license . . . walking legs.		The entire town wants to get rid of legal prostitutes, but the sagacious Mr T realizes that they are a benefit to the economy and society. So he lets the sa-geishas stay.	(re: sweetneet) Since he is not very sagacious, Mr. T failed his driver´s license and now needs to resort to his walking legs to get around.	JH	1	シュン		
1090	bystander	Bàng (bàng quan)	傍	bystander, person, traffic cop, fez, vase, stand up, crown, compass, direction	12	27	Person . . . stand . . . crown . . . compass.		In Japan, the emperor is a bystander - he stands on his crown but can´t really affect the direction of the country. (thx shimouma).	Mr. T is in the street, standing up, wearing an golden crown and a compass in his hand... he´s asking the bystander if they know how to get to buckingham palace (!).	JH	1	ボウ	かたわ.ら、わき、おか-、はた、そば	傍ら (かたわ.ら)
1092	long time	Cửu (vĩnh cửu)	久	long time, bound up, person, mummy	3	27	This character uses the diagonal sweep of the second stroke to double up for bound up and a person. Think of a mummy, and the key word will not be far behind.		Note: this is the ひさ in ひさしぶり . Long time no see mummy! (A bound up person).	"This is a picture of a person bowing ""long time no see!""."	5	2	キュウ、ク	ひさ.しい	永久 (えいきゅう), 持久 (じきゅう), 耐久 (たいきゅう), 久しい (ひさ.しい)
1093	furrow	Mẫu	畝	furrow, top hat, rice field, brains, long time, mummy, bound up, person	10	27	Think of the three kinds of furrows shown here in this character - a top hat's rim, a rice field's ridges, and the wrinkles that show you've been around a long time.		Using a TOP HAT to make FURROWS in the RICE FIELD takes a LONG TIME!	A mummy tries to furrow his brow but realizes that he´s got no head - just a brain with a top-hat on it. So he furrows his brain. [trigger: furrow your brain].	JH	1	ボウ、ホ、モ、ム	せ、うね	畝 (うね), 畝 (せ)
1094	captured	Tù	囚	captured, pent in, person	5	27	Person . . . pent in.		A person pent in is obviously captured. Imagine a man put inside a wooden box, his evil capturers waiting for ransom money.	Mr. T can´t be captured. This kanji is lying.	JH	1	シュウ	とら.われる	
1095	inside	Nội	内	inside, person, belt	4	27	Person . . . belt. Note that we cannot use the primitive meaning of hood here because the person runs THROUGH the element, not under it.		Mr. T´s new belt is huge! When he´s inside it, his feet no longer touch the ground!	How is a person ever supposed to get inside that girl when she´s wearing such a huge chastity belt? I guess that´s kinda the point, eh?	2	3	ナイ、ダイ	うち	内外 (ないがい), 内容 (ないよう), 家内 (かない), 内 (うち)
1096	third class	Bính (thứ 3)	丙	third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt	5	27	"Those no-frills flights the airlines offer to attract customers should help create an image from ceiling . . . person . . . belt. The kanji meaning ""inside"" should not be used because of its proximity to the element for ""in."""		In this third class flight, the seatbelts are so bad that with the slightest turbulence all the persons hit the ceiling. (it´s almost pictographic here!).	But third class is so small Mr. T´s head hits the celing.	JH	1	ヘイ	ひのえ	
1097	design	Bính (cái cán, cái chuôi)	柄	design, tree, wood, third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt	9	27	Tree . . . third class.		"The third class seats on the train are very simply designed. In fact, they're not designed at all. They're just wooden stumps of trees. This is a ""design"" as in a ""pattern"", not a verb as in ""to design"". The tree grain design was too expensive for the third class airline to use for the panelling. They just painted it."	Half Way!!!!	JH	1	ヘイ	がら、え、つか	柄 (え), 柄 (がら)
1098	meat	Nhục	肉	meat, person, inside, belt, person, person2	6	27	"Let this doubling of one of the elements for ""inside"" yield the sense of ""insides"" to approach the key word, meat. The abbreviated form of this character gave us the primitive meaning of flesh or part of the body for the kanji 月."		Here we are looking at an x-ray of a cannibal whose insides are full on people-meat.	A person´s inside - fleshy, raw, pink, meat.	2	4	ニク	しし	
1099	rot	Hủ (thối nát)	腐	rot, borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue, meat, inside, belt, person, person2	14	27	Municipality . . . meat.		The rotting meat adheres to the cave walls.	Smaller municipalities are well known for filling their budgets with pork (meat). Thats why they are also well known for being rotten.	JH	1	フ	くさ.る、-くさ.る、くさ.れる、くさ.れ、くさ.らす、くさ.す	腐らす (くさ.らす), 腐る (くさ.る), 腐れる (くさ.れる)
1100	sit	Toạ (chỗ ngồi, toạ đàm)	座	squat, sit, cave, shire, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2	10	27	Cave . . . assembly line . . . soil.		CONGRATULATIONS YOU´RE HALFWAY THERE!!!! =).	Coal mine (cave); tea break time; the assembly line stops and everyone sit or squat on the dirt floor, in a long line, to rest.	6	3	ザ	すわ.る	座る (すわ.る)
1102	graduate	Tốt	卒	graduate, top hat, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person2	8	27	Top hat . . . assembly line . . . needle.		Ph.D graduation for assembly line of doctors(needles) with the cap and tassel(top hat). It took them 10 years (Bachelor´s, Masters, PhD) to get there.... :-p.	When you graduate, you wear a hat and graduate in an assembly line while your parents sit on pins and needles because it will take ten years to pay off those loans.	4	2	ソツ、シュツ	そっ.する、お.える、お.わる、ついに、にわか	
1103	umbrella	Tán (cái ô)	傘	umbrella, umbrella, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person4, assembly line2	12	27	Umbrella . . . two assembly lines . . . needle.		FOUR PERSONS can fit under this UMBRELLA if they are thin as a NEEDLE.	There are two assembly lines at the umbrella factory. One is responsible for making the top of the umbrella, and the other for making the handle. The two lines cross at the end, where one man tries frantically to jam the sets of parts together.	JH	1	サン	かさ	傘 (かさ)
1104	monme	Chỉ (đơn vị đo khối lượng)	匁	monme, bound up, tucked under the arm	4	28	This character obliges us once again to make use of a Japanese key word for want of an English equivalent. It refers to an old unit of weight, equal to about 3.75 grams. The word is only slightly more useful in modern Japanese than cubits and kites are in modern English. Its primitives, if you look closely, are: bound up . . . arm.		"Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!""."	"Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"" ""You´ll never be able to use your dagger now!"" (adapted from ergerg)."	Names	1		もんめ、め	匁 (もんめ)
1105	by means of	Dĩ (dĩ vãng)	以	by means of, plow, drop, person	5	28	"Picture a person dragging a plow behind, and the drop of sweat which falls from his brow as he does his work. Think of him (or her, for that matter) making a living ""by means of the sweat of their brows."""		"A man earns his living by means of the plow. I imagine a sweating man dragging a bronze-age ""ard"" behind him as he plows his field himself, too poor to afford an ox."	Mr T now makes a living by means of a plow/hoe and the sweat he puts into it.	4	4	イ	もっ.て	
1106	similar	Tự (tương tự)	似	becoming, similar, person, by means of, plow, drop, person	7	28	Be sure to keep this key word distinct from likeness (Frame 104). Its elements: person . . . by means of.		Mr. T finds that living by means of dragging a plow is similar to slavery.	A Mr T impersonator is becoming similarer (more like) by means of plastic surgery. The process is painful and his face is all bound up in bandages as the surgery heals.	5	3	ジ	に.る、ひ.る	似る (に.る)
1107	join	Tính (thôn tính)	併	join, person, puzzle, horns, two hands	8	28	The sense of the key word is one of joining things together that were previously separate. Its elements: person . . . puzzle.		Mr. T furiously works a puzzle in an attempt to join Mensa, the high-IQ society.	Why do I gotta join these two puzzle pieces? I ain´t got time for joining no jigsaw-jabba! Mr. T apparently gets a severe case of crankypants when doing puzzles.	JH	1	ヘイ	あわ.せる	併せる (あわ.せる)
1108	tile	Ngoã (ngói)	瓦	tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice	5	28	Ceiling . . . plow . . . fishhook . . . a drop of.		Horror scene: Hanging from the ceiling, a plough and fishhook dripping with blood down onto the tiled bathroom floor.	[true stroke order] First draw T for Tile, which then becomes I. Then draw an ´L´ fish hook with a dash in the middle to make a mediocre ´e´ that few can see.//ガ wa3 와 (wa).	JH		ガ	かわら、ぐらむ	瓦 (かわら)
1109	flower pot	Bình	瓶	flower pot, puzzle, horns, two hands, tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice	11	28	Puzzle . . . tile.		A flower pot that has been dropped on the floor is like a puzzle of ceramic tiles to glue together.	To solve this puzzle all you need is to put the flower pot on top of the proper tile. (cue secrets tune from Zelda).	JH	2	ビン	かめ	
1110	Shinto shrine	Cung (cung điện)	宮	shinto shrine, house, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2	10	28	Way back in lesson 2 we learned the character for spine. The two other characters in which it is used we can now learn together in this and the following frame. Here a Shinto shrine is composed of house and spine.		"This Shinto shrine is built with human spines. Have you ever seen the ossuary in Sedlec, near Kutna Hora in Czech Republic ? It is a small church entirely decorated with human bones. Do a web search for ""sedlec ossuary"", it´s quite a sight."	"A friend of mine made up a rhyme for this one: ""house with a spine, Shinto shrine""!"	3	1	キュウ、グウ、ク、クウ	みや	宮殿 (きゅうでん), 宮廷 (きゅうてい), 離宮 (りきゅう), 宮 (みや)
1111	occupation	Doanh (doanh trại)	営	occupation, schoolhouse, owl, crown, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2	12	28	Schoolhouse . . . spine.		The schoolhouse is the backbone of a foundation that will allow you to find a good occupation.	"During the German occupation, this Nazi officer´s occupation was to manage schools that were requisitioned for training the children of the Aryan race to stand proud with an erect spine (mnemonic : ""the occupation´s spine schools""). Kanji meanings : to manage, to conduct (business), and also ""barracks; camp; encapment"". This story should help avoid confusion with post (#824) and employ (#1083). The military occupation theme hints to the secondary meaning, e.g. 営倉 ""detention barracks""."	5	2	エイ	いとな.む、いとな.み	営む (いとな.む)
1112	virtuous	Thiện	善	virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth	12	28	Sheep . . . horns . . . mouth. Pay special attention to the writing of this character.		"Imagine a priest´s teaching: ""To achieve virtue one must first submit himself as a sheep to God´s flock, rejecting the horns of Satan and resisting the mouth of Hell."	"To be virtuous, a good rule to follow is to put your sheepishness (discretion) over your horns (anger) before using your mouth. In other words, ""discretion is the better part of virtue""."	6	1	ゼン	よ.い、い.い、よ.く、よし.とする	善い (よ.い)
1114	year	Niên	年	year, sign of the horse, sunglasses	6	28	In an odd fashion, the kanji for year joins together the element for horse, on the top, and the right half of the element for sunglasses. Think of it as a horse wearing sunglasses with one of the lenses popped out. We will use this latter image again, so learn it now and save yourself the trouble later.		A horse wears a pair of sunglasses with one lens popped out after a particularly raucous celebration to ring in the New Year.	A horse wears a monocle for New Years to appear dignified for the year of the horse. ――one lens = monocle, you will encounter this again in kanji like descend (#1308).	1	5	ネン	とし	年 (とし)
1115	night	Dạ (ban đêm)	夜	night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop	8	28	First of all, be sure not to confuse the connotations of night with those of evening (Frame 114) and nightbreak (Frame 30). Its elements: top hat . . . person . . . walking legs . . . drop.		"Actually, the lower-right primitive isn´t quite ""walking legs."" It´s a little more like ""evening"" with an extra stroke across it (look up the stroke order). So, it helps me to see this kanji for night as: evening plus an extra stroke representing the tuxedo tails to match the top hat which my special person is wearing out on the town..."	Here we have Mister T sleepwalking, wearing a top hat as if he was the ambassador of the night, walking, and walking and walking on his tired walking legs, until he drops (back into his bed).	2	4	ヤ	よ、よる	夜 (よ), 夜 (よる)
1116	fluid	Dịch	液	fluid, water, water droplets, water pistol, night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop	11	28	Water . . . night.		A wet dream........water fluid that comes out at night....	I imagined some kind of liquid (water) that was discovered on another planet. It solidifes during the day, and becomes fluid only at night, in the absence of light. The question is, could any lifeforms thrive in there ?	5	2	エキ		
1117	hillock	Trủng (đống đất)	塚	hillock, soil, dirt, ground, crown, pig, sow	12	28	Soil . . . crown . . . sow. Compare frame 582.		There´s already King of the Hill. This is Queen of the Hillock. It´s Ms. Piggy sitting on top of a mound of soil in her crown.	The crowned sow (we met her in overpowering) is standing atop her little mound of earth - hillock - the undisputed champeen of all the pigsty.	JH	1	チョウ	つか、-づか	塚 (つか)
1118	cash	Tệ (tiền tệ)	幣	cash, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, towel	15	28	Shredder . . . towel.		A counterfeiter is using a shredder to shred a towel in order to print up some cash (he needs some rag paper) .	"In order to create some cash, first you feed a towel through a shredder to get the raw materials. (""Paper"" money isn´t plain paper; it´s mostly linen.)."	JH	1	ヘイ	ぬさ	
1120	abuse	Tệ (tệ hại)	弊	abuse, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, two hands	15	28	Shredder . . . two hands.		The Bush administration taskmasters hid their abuse of power by shredding documents as fast as they could using both hands....　　　　　RTK2: 　ヘイ　弊害　へいがい(abuse)...　　　Pure Group:　幣1041.	You’ve heard of Edward Scissor hands? Well this is Medward Shredder Hands. Instead of nicely trimming your shrubs, he uses his TWO SHREDDER equipped HANDS to ABUSE your plants by shredding them into wood chips.	JH	1	ヘイ		
1121	yell	Hoán (hô hoán)	喚	yell, mouth, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard	12	28	The mouth on the left is obvious. The rest is harder. Try this: four St. Bernard dogs bound up in a bunch. Together they should supply a clear enough portrait of a yell, provided you are careful to see all four of them. Note how the final stroke of the four is supplied by the long horizontal stroke of the St .Bernard.		Think yelp when you hear yell to help dinstinguish this from shout (1508). I think of the sounds that would come from the mouths of the 4 dogs if they were bound up together. I´m imagining lots of yelping.	Yell? You mean, Old Yeller. Here, we see four St Bernard dogs all yelling for a chance to play a part in Old Yeller. They´re so loud that you have to bound them, and their mouths, up.	JH	1	カン	わめ.く	
1122	interchange	Hoán (giao hoán)	換	interchange, finger, fingers, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard	12	28	Fingers . . . four St. Bernard dogs bound up.		After months of practice, you finally managed to teach a nice trick to your sled-pulling four bound up St. Bernard dogs: one snap of your fingers and they interchange their positions.	On the snap of your fingers, the four St. Bernard dogs bound up interchange places.	JH	2	カン	か.える、-か.える、か.わる	換える (か.える), 換わる (か.わる)
1123	dissolve	Dung (tan chảy, dung hoà, dung hợp)	融	dissolve, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike, insect	16	28	Ceiling . . . mouth . . . hood . . . human legs . . . spike . . . insect. This is the maximum number of elements to appear in any story in the book.		"I have created the element ""old camera"" out of the left side of the kanji: from the subject´s point of view, the light is captured by one mouth (the lens). The photographer is under a big hood, we only see his legs, and he is holding a spike in his right hand, which is the shutter release. Now, at the time the photographer takes the photo, a little insect is flying near the flash. The flash is so powerful that the insect is burnt and dissolves in the air."	I´ve seen this crazy thing with only one mouth that can dissolve up to 4 nails and an insect at the same time. Sweet! (It´s a venus flytrap, btw).	JH	1	ユウ	と.ける、と.かす	
1124	alms	Thi, thí (thực thi, bố thí)	施	alms, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, scorpion	9	29	Banner . . . scorpion.		Under their banner, volunteers are requesting alms for scorpion sting victims.	ALMS for the poor cries the beggar under his tattered BANNER. An evil bastard instead drops a SCORPION into his begging bowl.	JH	1	シ、セ	ほどこ.す	施設 (しせつ), 施政 (しせい), 実施 (じっし), 施す (ほどこ.す)
1125	rotation	Toàn (đi vòng tròn, quay tròn)	旋	rotation, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, zoo, critters	11	29	A banner . . . a zoo. Hint: think of a merry-go-round.		A merry-go-round with a big banner on top and below a veritable zoo of bakelite animals on poles in perpertual rotation accompanied by silly music. Giraffes, elephants, zebras, rhinos...	Don´t confuse with revolve or axis! Think of rotation as a rotation of animals in the zoo - some are on display (in rotation), some are in cages in the back (out of rotation). The ones currently in rotation (on display) are advertised with a large banner.	JH	1	セン		
1126	play	Du	遊	play, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, child, road	12	29	Banners . . . children . . . road.		The BANNER warns that CHILDREN PLAY on the ROAD.	"There is always a stupid banner talking about children at play near the road. They mean ""drive slowly"", but it sounds like its slow(stupid) children that are at play."	3	3	ユウ、ユ	あそ.ぶ、あそ.ばす	遊戯 (ゆうぎ), 遊離 (ゆうり), 交遊 (こうゆう), 遊ぶ (あそ.ぶ)
1127	trip	Lữ (lữ khách)	旅	trip, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, Carol in rags, person, rag	10	29	Let the last 4 strokes, which are also the concluding strokes to the character for garment, represent a rag as its primitive meaning. We shall meet this only on one other occasion. This gives us as our elements: banner . . . rag.		"The boat starts to leave on it´s trip across the Atlantic. Underneath a huge banner that spans the width of the ship and says ""Bon Voyage"", the people wave their rags signalling a safe journey for all on board the Titanic."	After a long long trip, what once was a proud beautiful banner, we had nothing more than a simple rag remaining.	3	4	リョ	たび	旅 (たび)
1128	not	Vật (không)	勿	not, knot, piglet’s tail	4	29	First take the primitive meaning of this character: knot. Think of it as the piglet minus its body (the horizontal stroke), that is, the curly tail that looks like a knot. As an exception, we will use the homonym to remember the abstract key word, not.		This kanji is NOT a piglett.	"The butcher is standing over the piglet. ""This is a piglet...(cuts of head)...NOT!""."	Names		モチ、ブツ、ボツ	なか.れ、なし	
1129	thing	Vật	物	thing, cow, knot, piglet’s tail	8	29	Cow . . . knot.		"The cow´s ""thing"" is tied in a knot! ouch."	A cow is not a thing. Its an animal. If you study japanese you know that living beings and things are discerned from each other with the verbs iru and aru.	3	4	ブツ、モツ	もの、もの-	物質 (ぶっしつ), 人物 (じんぶつ), 動物 (どうぶつ), 物 (もの)
1130	easy	Dị, dịch (dễ, dịch chuyển)	易	easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail	8	29	Sun . . . knot.		The sun is not an easy place to get to.	Under the sun, it is easy to untie a knot. Under a pitch-dark sky, it is knot so easy.	5	3	エキ、イ	やさ.しい、やす.い	易者 (えきしゃ), 貿易 (ぼうえき), 不易 (ふえき), 易しい (やさ.しい)
1131	grant	Tứ (ban tặng)	賜	grant, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail	15	29	Shells . . . easy.		A grant is easy money.	"Do you want free shells from the government? It´s easy with my new book, ""How to Get a Free Grant from the Government!"" Call today!"	JH	1	シ	たまわ.る、たま.う、たも.う	賜る (たまわ.る)
1132	urine	Niệu	尿	urine, flag, water	7	29	Flag . . . water.		"Animals use their urine to mark their territory. So for them, their body water works as a flag denoting their ""country"" (why bother? we all know which story you are going to pick)."	Someone is pissing on the American flag, but since the urine is clear it looks like water.	JH	1	ニョウ		
1133	nun	Ni (ni cô)	尼	nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground	5	29	Flag . . . spoon.		Red cross nuns sit in a tent under the red cross flag, spooning out food to the hungry.	A nun sits in protests under an American flag.	JH	1	ニ	あま	尼 (あま)
1135	mud	Nê (bùn)	泥	mud, water, water droplets, water pistol, nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground	8	29	Water . . . nun.		How much mud do I like in my water? Nun!	Water monks live in a den, but water nuns live in the MUD.	JH	2	デイ、ナイ、デ、ニ	どろ	泥 (どろ)
1136	fence	Biên	塀	fence, soil, dirt, ground, folding screen, flag, puzzle, horns, two hands	12	29	Soil . . . flag . . . puzzle.		[fence; wall; (kokuji)] A fence separates one soil from the other. On a large scale, large pieces of soils in the world have a virtual fence called nation. Picture a world map where all countries have their soil with one color, their national flag as the legend and a fence on the borders... don´t you think it looks like a giant puzzle?	"Why the Earth has to be fenced off and flags used to represent each ""country"" is a puzzle to me - we´re all just monkeys on a big rock spinning round the Sun!"	JH	1	ヘイ、ベイ		
1137	footgear	Lý (đi, mặc, giầy)	履	footgear, flag, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs	15	29	Flag . . . restore.		NOTE: The most common use is in はく, meaning to put on footgear, rather than actual footgear itself. STORY: You are asleep in camp when you are woken up with news that the FLAG has fallen to the enemy. You quickly PUT ON YOUR FOOTGEAR and run off to RESTORE the FLAG.	You should never use a flag as a shoeshine cloth to restore your footgear.	JH	1	リ	は.く	履く (は.く)
1138	roof	Ốc (phòng ốc, mui xe)	屋	roof, flag, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground	9	29	"Flag . . . climax. Note that this kanji has no relation to the drawing of a ""roof"" used in the primitive for house."		Flag at the climax (highest point) of a castle roof.	A couple climaxing on the roof, draped in the American flag. The neighbors are mortified and call the landlady...	3	4	オク	や	屋 (や)
1139	grip	Ác	握	grip, finger, fingers, roof, flag climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground	12	29	Fingers . . . roof.		Fingers gripping the roof as your about to fall to your death. Think of an action scene in some movie.	"(This is the にぎ of sushi). A sushi chef climaxes into a rice ball, wraps it in an American flag, and grips is firm with his fingers to form the ""Fuck You America Onigiri.""."	JH	1	アク	にぎ.る	握る (にぎ.る)
1140	yield	Khuất	屈	yield, flag, exit	8	29	Flag . . . exit.		When yielding, soldiers raise the white flag before exiting from the trenches.	If you live in Japan, you are only too familiar with the helpful little man who assists you in getting out of every parking lot or parking garage, standing at the exit, waving his flag to make traffic yield to you.	JH	1	クツ	かが.む、かが.める	
1141	dig	Quật	掘	dig, finger, fingers, yield, flag, exit	11	29	Fingers . . . yield.		If you dig with your fingers hard enough, soil eventually yields.	When you dig, you´d better hope that whatever you´re digging into yields to your fingers. If not, you´re bound to lose some nails.	JH	2	クツ	ほ.る	掘る (ほ.る)
1142	ditch	Quật (mương)	堀	ditch, moat, soil, dirt, ground, yield, flag, exit	11	29	Soil . . . yield.		(See dig (#1061)). When soil finally yielded thanks to your digging efforts, what you have is a ditch.	Ditch / trench. The yielding army abandons it´s patch of soil, leaving behind a landscape of ditchs and trenches. Trench warfare.	JH	1	クツ	ほり	堀 (ほり)
1143	reside	Cư	居	reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	8	29	Flag . . . old. Do not confuse with dwell (Frame 1027).		A humongous American flag in Florida marks the place where all the old people reside.	It is an old tradition that people plant a flag on places where decide to reside; this tradition still goes on: Antarctica, the moon: flags all over the place! cf. set (#1064).	5	3	キョ、コ	い.る、-い、お.る	居る (い.る)
1144	set	Cư (đặt, để)	据	set, finger, fingers, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	11	29	Fingers . . . reside.		"The man set his finger firmly on the map and said ""Here is where they reside, I am certain of it""."	Cf. reside (#1063): you set the flag with your fingers on the place where you reside: an old tradition.	JH	1	キョ	す.える、す.わる	据える (す.える), 据わる (す.わる)
1146	stratum	Tầng (thượng tầng, hạ tầng)	層	stratum, flag, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day	14	29	Flag . . . increase.		The strata have piled up in an ever increasing pile of dirt. As the geologists go down the rocks, they flag each stratum with the name of the corresponding era.	Archaeologists at a dig site place small flags marking layers or strata of rock. Each of these layers was formerly the top layer. (This is not increase! Hseige keeps messing up).	6	2	ソウ		
1147	bureau	Cục (bộ phận)	局	bureau, flag, phrase, bound up, mouth	7	29	Flag . . . phrase. Note how the flag's long stroke doubles up for the first stroke of phrase.		The Federal Bureau of Investigation has email scanners that flag certain phrases.	They do nothing at the bureau other than repeating the stupid catchphrase they have on their flag.	3	3	キョク	つぼね	
1148	slow	Trì (muộn)	遅	slow, flag, sheep, road	12	29	Flag . . . sheep . . . road.		A sheep crossing guard waves a SLOW flag for his fellow sheep crossing the road.	"Road sign (flag): ""Sheep on highway! Drive slowly.""."	JH	3	チ	おく.れる、おく.らす、おそ.い	遅らす (おく.らす), 遅れる (おく.れる), 遅い (おそ.い)
1149	leak	Lậu (lộ)	漏	leak, water, water droplets, water pistol, flag, rain, weather	14	29	Water . . . flag . . . rain.		WATER always LEAKED in the spot left by the FLAG planted in the roof everytime it RAINED. Not too hard to picture a hole left in the ceiling from a flag, now leaking water.	Mark the holes where rain water can leak through with little flags.	JH	1	ロウ	も.る、も.れる、も.らす	漏らす (も.らす), 漏る (も.る), 漏れる (も.れる)
1150	printing	Loát	刷	printing, flag, towel, sword, sabre, saber	8	29	Flag . . . towel . . . saber.		We printed a japanese flag on his white towel by stabbing him with a saber while he was wearing it.	The image that keeps coming to me is of the giant mechanical printing presses. The cloth-based material is coming off the roll like a flag and then, after printing, gets cut into sheets by saber-like cutting tools.	4	2	サツ	す.る、-ず.り、-ずり、は.く	刷る (す.る)
1151	shaku	Xích (thước)	尺	shaku, flag, stick	4	29	"The key word shaku has actually come into English in the word shakuhachi, the ancient Japanese flute that measured ""one shaku and eight sun"" (the ""sun"" being about an inch in length). Since the shaku is about one foot in length, this makes about 20 inches. Let the final sweeping stroke be like a tape measure added to the flag."	* As a primitive, this will mean the shakuhachi flute.	Slang for blowjob and that´s priceless for stories...but also the character looks like the letter R which I think of as standing for RULER (12 inches) other meanings include: rule, measure, length.	"Since this is SLANG for BLOW JOB and since it looks like an ""R"", let´s have the primitive be the R in BROW JOB. :)."	6	1	シャク		
1152	exhaust	Tận (tận lực)	尽	exhaust, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, ice	6	29	Shakuhachi . . . ice.		"A women is so exhausted by her ""shakuhachi"" that see needs to ice her jaw."	That´s not ice...it´s my last drops and I´m exhausted! ;).	JH	1	ジン、サン	つ.くす、-つ.くす、-づ.くし、-つ.く、-づ.く、-ず.く、つ.きる、つ.かす、さかづき、ことごと.く、つか、つき	尽かす (つ.かす), 尽きる (つ.きる), 尽くす (つ.くす)
1153	swamp	Trạch (đầm lầy)	沢	swamp, water, water droplets, water pistol, shaku-hachi, flag, stick	7	29	Water . . . shakuhachi.		You´re hiding from the enemy underwater in a swamp. To breathe, you have your shakuhachi flute poking up through the surface of the water.	Sirens in the swamp play eerie music on their shakuhachi flutes to lure you in - you follow the enchanting music then its too late as you get trapped in the swamp!	JH	1	タク	さわ、うるお.い、うるお.す、つや	沢 (さわ)
1154	translate	Dịch	訳	translate, say, words, keitai, mouth, shaku-hachi, flag, stick	11	29	Words . . . shakuhachi.		You cannot pretend to translate into words the melody of the shakuhachi!	You all know that ´shakuhachi´ is a slang word for blowjob, right? In this kanji you got a job as a TRANSLATOR for Japanese porno movies. So you sit there all day translating dirty WORDS and watching girls perform SHAKUHACHI. This is the life!	6	1	ヤク	わけ	訳 (わけ)
1155	choose	Trạch (chọn lựa)	択	choose, finger, fingers, shaku-hachi, flag, stick	7	29	Fingers . . . shakuhachi.		"Hand job or ""shakuhachi"", choose."	Depending on where you choose to put your fingers, the shakuhachi will produce a different note.	JH	1	タク	えら.ぶ	
1156	daytime	Trú (buổi trưa)	昼	daytime, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor	9	29	Shakuhachi . . . nightbreak.		Roosters in Japan are very civilised, they play the shakuhachi at nightbreak to signify the beginning of daytime.	In a Zelda game, you can warp to the daytime if you play your shakuhachi to bring about nightbreak... or your ocarina if you don´t have a shakuhachi.	2	4	チュウ	ひる	昼 (ひる)
1157	door	Hộ (cửa, hộ khẩu)	戸	door, one, flag	4	29	Ceiling . . . flag.		"Traditional Japanese storefront doors have several flags, known as ""noren,"" hanging down from a curtain rod in front of them. I see this as a pseudo-pictograph, and use the horizontal line across the top to represent the curtain rod, since noren don´t usually hang from the ceiling."	A Japanese door has a noren, a flag hanging from a rod. (I give this primitive the meaning of a noren-covered door).	2	2	コ	と	戸 (と)
1158	shoulder	Kiên (vai)	肩	shoulder, door, one, ceiling, flag, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	8	29	Door . . . flesh.		The shoulder is the best part of the body to bash a door open with (Don´t ever try this. Use your foot).	The shoulder is part of the body you use to push through the noren in a doorway. I was having trouble with positioning of the primitives until I tweaked shaydwyrm´s story slightly. If you think of pushing through a noren, this makes sense as a pictograph. The noren hangs from above, and you push through it from below.	JH	2	ケン	かた	肩 (かた)
1159	tassel	Phòng, bàng (phòng ở, cái buồng)	房	tassel, door, one, ceiling, flag, compass, direction	8	29	Door . . . compass.		Explanation here: http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?pid=14684#p14684.	"When you graduate from a school, after they gave you your tassel, they shove you to the door and give you a compass saying ""Sayonara & Good Luck out there!"" (ボウ)."	JH	1	ボウ	ふさ	房 (ふさ)
1160	fan	Phiến (quạt)	扇	fan, door, one, ceiling, flag, feathers, wings	10	29	Door . . . wings.		It´s insanely hot today! I´m standing in the doorway, fanning myself with feathers.	I am a fan of the Doors but I also like the Wings. I have a fan that I take to rock concerts with the picture of each band on the sides.	JH	1	セン	おうぎ	扇 (おうぎ)
1161	hearth	Lô (lò)	炉	hearth-fire, door, one, ceiling, flag	8	29	Hearth fire . . . door.		This hearth is equipped with a fire-proof door. On the kanji you can see somewhat pictographically the fire-proof door keeping the fire behind, and nothing comes under the door primitive, where you would have expected to see another primitive.	"-""Honey? Do we have any wood left for the hearth?"" -""Aagh, just use the frickin´ door!""."	JH	1	ロ	いろり	
1162	re-	Lệ (quay lại)	戻	re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard	7	29	"The key word signals a ""coming back"" or return to some place or activity. Its elements: door . . . St. Bernard dog."		The St. Bernard dog whining at the door of his master’s house in order to re-enter / re-turn inside.	Think about hachiko, the dog waiting at the door of the station, waiting for his master to re-turn.	JH	3	レイ	もど.す、もど.る	戻す (もど.す), 戻る (もど.る)
1163	tears	Lệ	涙	tears, water, water droplets, water pistol, re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard	10	29	Water . . . re-. Do not confuse with cry (Frame 463).		I see the story of Hachiko: the faithfull dog who still waited for his master to return long after he had died. Brings a tear to the eye.	Tears are watery (water + re).	JH	2	ルイ、レイ	なみだ	涙 (なみだ)
1164	employ	Cố (thuê)	雇	employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey	12	29	Door . . . turkey. Be sure to keep distinct from both employee (Frame 59) and use (Frame 1065).		Our company has no standards. We´ll employ any turkey who walks in the door.	"Comedy. An executive is having an argument with a cocky, but skilled, employee: ""Damn it, you might be good. But that don´t account for your behavior. You keep this up and I´ll fire your ass."" ""No, you won´t."" ""What damn it, I´ll fire you your ass so fast you won´t...know...""-. ""And what will you do after you fire me, employ the next turkey that walks through that door?"" A turkey then walks through the door and hands the Exec his resume. --""The Exec employs the turkey that walked through the door""."	JH	2	コ	やと.う	雇う (やと.う)
1165	look back	Cố (nhìn lại)	顧	look back, employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	21	29	Employ . . . head.		I was EMPLOYED to give HEAD...when I look back, maybe that was not a wise career move.	The people we employ are always turning their heads to look back. They don´t want to be caught playing solitare on company time.	JH	1	コ	かえり.みる	顧みる (かえり.みる)
1166	disclose	Khải (nói)	啓	disclose, bouncer, door, one, ceiling, flag, taskmaster, mouth	11	29	Door . . . taskmaster . . . mouth.		Behind closed DOORS, the TASKMASTER tortures to get prisoners to open their MOUTHS and DISCLOSE information.	You signed a non-disclosure agreement with the taskmaster but you opened your mouth as soon as you got out the door!	JH	1	ケイ	ひら.く、さと.す	
1167	show	Thị	示	show, altar, show, two, small	5	30	Although the elements two and little are available for the using, it may be easier to remember this character as a picture of an altar. Something placed atop the altar is put on show for all to see.	* As a primitive, this kanji means altar. At the left, the abbreviated form that this element takes is made by chopping the altar in half and leaving only one dot behind to represent the right side. The new appearance of this primitive form, ネ, should be kept distinct from that for cloak, identical except for the one final short stroke.	A boy made an altar, but he´s afraid to show it to God because he thinks it´s two little.	I´ll SHOW you mine if you show me yours!, she said. I did & she scoffed because it was TWO LITTLE.	5	3	ジ、シ	しめ.す	示威 (しい), 示談 (じだん), 指示 (しじ), 示す (しめ.す)
1168	salutation	Lê (lễ)	礼	salute, salutation, altar, fishhook	5	30	This key word refers to the polite bows and ceremonious forms of salutation so important in Japanese culture. Its elements: altar . . . fishhook.		Indy, my friend, you must be very careful! If you approach the altar and do not give the proper salutation a large fishhook will rip you away.	You should fish hook (bend/bow) your body before an altar as a form of salutation to God/gods.	3	3	レイ、ライ		礼儀 (れいぎ), 謝礼 (しゃれい), 無礼 (ぶれい)
1169	auspicious	Tường (điềm)	祥	auspicious, altar, sheep	10	30	Altar . . . sheep.		Bringing a sheep to sacrifice on the altar was a sign of an auspicious life. The poor could only afford a pigeon, the more auspicious an expensive sheep for an offering.	On this ewe-spicious occasion, you sacrifice a sheep at the altar. —— Sorry, but I really need more than generic altar sacrifices to connect keywords to stories. Sometimes an egregious pun is the only way.	JH	1	ショウ	さいわ.い、きざ.し、よ.い、つまび.らか	
1170	celebrate	Chúc	祝	celebrate, altar, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	9	30	Altar . . . teenager.		It´s a Bar Mitzvah. At the altar, the teenager is singing in his awful, mid-puberty voice. We´ll all celebrate when that part is over!	When Japanese people turn 20 they usually visit the altar at their local shrine and celebrate no longer being a teenager.	4	2	シュク、シュウ	いわ.う	祝賀 (しゅくが), 祝日 (しゅくじつ), 慶祝 (けいしゅく), 祝う (いわ.う)
1171	blessing	Phúc	福	blessing, altar, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains	13	30	Altar . . . wealth.		This recalls the selling of indulgences in the history of the Church (As an aside, Protestantism began as a protest of this practice). Basically, one gave wealth to the altar (i.e. priest) and received a blessing. If you prefer a Jewish version, think of the donation (wealth) that is expected when you´re called to the ark (altar in the kanji) to give a blessing over the torah.	Put all your wealth on the church altar and receive one blessing. (You stand up out of your wheelchair or something.).	3	3	フク		
1172	welfare	Chỉ (phúc)	祉	welfare, altar, stop, footprint	8	30	Altar . . . footprint.		And in front of every altar, she stopped to pray for the welfare of the others.	Religious Republicans regularly go to the altar to pray for a stop to welfare.	JH	1	シ		
1173	company	Xã	社	company, altar, soil, dirt, ground	7	30	Altar . . . soil. The company referred to here is that of the modern business world.		When you enter a Japanese company it´s like you join a cult... your workdesk becomes your altar and you worship the very soil the office is built on.	Some Japanese companies, including Toyota, have a Shinto shrine on their grounds to bring luck and prosperity to the company and its employees.	2	4	シャ	やしろ	社 (やしろ)
1174	inspection	Thị	視	inspection, altar, see, telescope, eye, human legs	11	30	Altar . . . see.		"The beaurocracy in Japan is such that even altars need to be inspection approved. A little man with glasses comes once a year to give the altar a ""visual once over"" as he calls it (perhaps checking for unauthorised symbology?)."	[inspection; regard as; see; look at] Inspection: you 示 show (#1086) and someone else 見 see (#57).	6	1	シ	み.る	
1175	Nara	Nại (làm sao?)	奈	nara, large, St. Bernard, altar, show, two, small	8	30	We choose the city of Nara as the key word in this case because this kanji, frequently used in proper names, appears in Nara; and also because of Nara's famed religious monuments, which help us with the primitives: St. Bernard dog . . . altar.		It´s beautiful place, but the dark side of Nara is that they sacrifice St. Bernards on evil altars every night after the tourists leave!	Nara is just a big show for tourists.	JH	1	ナ、ナイ、ダイ	いかん、からなし	
1176	military officer	Uý	尉	military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue	11	30	Flag . . . altar . . . glue.		Of course it had to be the military officer´s idea to glue a national flag to the altar he´s stationed at.	Perhaps you have heard about Koizumis controversial visits at the Yasukuni war memorial shrine. It is the japanese flag waving above a small stone altar. A military officer keeps watch here night and day, to honor the dead war heroes, as if he is glued to the ground.	JH	1	イ、ジョウ		
1177	consolation	Uý (yên ủi)	慰	consolation, military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue, heart	15	30	Military officer . . . heart.		A military officer must offer consolation to the hearts of the families of his fallen men.	"This Kanji appears in the word 慰安婦 いあんふ, which was what the infamous WW II ""comfort women"" were called in Japanese. The story goes something like this: As a way of providing consolation to battle-weary, heartsick military officers and soldiers, the Japanese set up comfort stations (brothels) for their servicemen. (Just to be clear: this is not an endorsement of the practice, just a way to remember the Kanji.)."	JH	1	イ	なぐさ.める、なぐさ.む	慰む (なぐさ.む), 慰める (なぐさ.める)
1178	goodwill	Khoản	款	goodwill, samurai, altar, show, two, small, lack, yawn	12	30	Samurai . . . altar . . . yawning.		Samuari, altar, yawn The samurai is on the altar, preaching about goodwill. The audience just yawns however, they want to see the man fight!	For better remembering the placement of the eleements: The samurai kneels before the altar at his wedding ceremony, when some of the attendants lets out a big yawn. He is a kind man and for the day his goodwill benefits everyone. No beheadings.	JH	1	カン		
1179	prohibition	Cấm	禁	prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2	13	30	Grove . . . altar.		"Similar to radical tyro´s story. If you live in Japan, your main exposure to this kanji is probably ""no smoking"" signs. So I imagine the government enacting a prohibition of tobacco, and burning whole groves of tobacco plants on an altar (the altar of public health, or self-righteousness, if you will)."	"Hidden in a grove was a church with a secret altar that was stocked full of prohibited alcohol during the American prohibition period of 1920-1933. A local registered himself as a mininster of this altar so he could stock prohibited alcohol ""for sacremental purposes"" and share it with his kin (きん)."	5	2	キン		
1180	collar	Khâm	襟	collar, cloak, prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2	18	30	Cloak . . . prohibition.		A collar is the part of your cloak that, if tightened too tight, will prohibit breathing.	Collars are prohibited from wizarding cloaks. Blood purists say they´re too muggle.	JH	1	キン	えり	襟 (えり)
1181	religion	Tôn	宗	religion, house, altar, show, two, small	8	30	House . . . altar.		I never really did figure out what religion my host family was - all I knew was that they kept an altar in their home.	All the RELIGIONS have their own temples, which are houses where they place their altars.	6	1	シュウ、ソウ	むね	宗教 (しゅうきょう), 宗派 (しゅうは), 改宗 (かいしゅう)
1182	adore	Sùng	崇	adore, mountain, religion, house, altar, show, two, small	11	30	Mountain . . . religion.		In ancient Greece, it was the religion of the time to adore the gods who live on Mount Olympus.	I would adore the religious people if they just went and threw themselves off a mountain top.	JH	1	スウ	あが.める	
1183	ritual	Tế	祭	ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small	11	30	Flesh . . . crotch . . . altar. Note how the second element is cut short, giving a tent-like effect to the character.		A ritual such as a circumcision: a small piece of flesh from the crotch is left on the altar.	There are many famous penis matsuris(festivals) in Japan. The rituals of these festivals involve placing the flesh of the crotch on an altar.	3	2	サイ	まつ.る、まつ.り、まつり	祭り (まつ.り), 祭る (まつ.る)
1184	guess	Sát (xét)	察	guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small	14	30	"""Guess"" here has the sense of a measured conjecture. Its elements: house . . . ritual."		I have an informed guess about whose house the dark rituals are performet at.	It´s anyone´s guess who´s house she will wake up in the morning after the festival (祭-matsuri)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　サツ　警察　けいさつ(police)…　Pure Group:　擦1104.	4	3	サツ		
1185	grate	Sát (trà sát)	擦	grate, finger, fingers, guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small	17	30	Fingers . . . guess.		If you mis-guess the cheese you´ll grate your fingers on the cheese-grater (happens to me all the time).	Ouch! Guess how many fingers I just grated in the grater? (Edit: OR: Ouch! Guess what I just grated in the grater? -- my finger!).	JH	1	サツ	す.る、す.れる、-ず.れ、こす.る、こす.れる	擦る (す.る), 擦れる (す.れる)
1186	wherefore	Do	由	wherefore, sprout, shoot	5	30	"The ""wherefore"" of this kanji explains the reason or origin of a thing. It does this graphically by depicting a seed in a rice field sending up a single sprout, which is the whole why and wherefore of the seed's falling in the earth and dying. (When the flower appears, you will recall from frame 249, we have a full seedling.)"	* As a primitive, in conformity to the explanation above, this kanji will be taken to mean shoot or sprout.	Wherefore art thou, Sprouteo? (Juliet has fallen in love with a brussel sprout) (OR: A brussel sprout has fallen from Juliet´s dinner plate and rolled off).	"Cogito ergo sum. Wherefore is a bad choice here for two reasons. For one, it´s often mistranslated as ""where"" when in fact it´s an urge to know a cause or reason; and two, because this kanji represents the reason, not the urge. [A thought sprouts from my brain. I think, therefore I am.]."	3	3	ユ、ユウ、ユイ	よし、よ.る	由来 (ゆらい), 経由 (けいゆ), 自由 (じゆう), 理由 (りゆう), 事由 (じゆう), 由 (よし)
1187	pluck	Trừu (tượng, kéo ra, nẩy ra)	抽	pluck, finger, fingers, sprout, shoot	8	30	Fingers . . . sprout.		[When I see the word pluck, I think eyebrows, not vegetables. So, to avoid confusing with pick (#733):] Each time this singular, long, wiry black hair starts to sprout out of my chin again, I pluck it with my fingers.	If you pluck your fingers, new ones will sprout in their place. (try it ;).	JH	1	チュウ	ひき-	
1188	oil	Du	油	oil, water, water droplets, water pistol, sprout, shoot	8	30	Water . . . sprout.		The liquid oil that sprouts from an oil field.	In a rather surprising scientific breakthrough, genetically modified Brussel sprouts (which have become extremely absorbative), are thrown in the water to suck up oil spills.	3	2	ユ、ユウ	あぶら	油 (あぶら)
1189	sleeve	Tụ (xóc áo phải để ý cổ tay -> lĩnh tụ: người đứng đầu)	袖	sleeve, cloak, sprout, shoot	10	30	Cloak . . . sprout.		Imagine some magic cloak, that when worn, has little green sprouts appearing on the sides that grow into sleeves.	"The bad magician says, ""As you can see, there´s nothing up my sleeves!"" Then he trips over his cloak and brussel sprouts fall everywhere."	JH		シュウ	そで	袖 (そで)
1190	mid-air	Trụ	宙	mid-air, house, sprout, shoot	8	30	House . . . shoot.		Jack´s beanstalk sprouted up, pushed at the roof and lifted the house so that it hangs in mid-air suspended on the SPROUT.	"Hahaha, the image of walking into a house and finding a sea of brussel sprouts floating mid-air is enough for me to remember. Maybe there´s a magician in the kitchen shouting a reassuring ""Don´t mind the sprouts!""."	6	1	チュウ		
1191	deliver	Giới	届	deliver, flag, sprout, shoot	8	30	Flag . . . sprout.		In the US, when the mail is delivered, a flag sprouts up on your mailbox. (We don´t have that in Australia.).	A Japanese man ordered some Brussel sprouts from Belgium. They are delivered with a little Belgian flag (as seen sometimes in shops, little flags indicating the provenance and authenticity of the food like cheese and meat).	6	2	カイ	とど.ける、-とど.け、とど.く	届く (とど.く), 届ける (とど.ける)
1192	flute	Địch	笛	flute, bamboo, sprout, shoot	11	30	Bamboo . . . sprout.		Flute is made of bamboo sprout.	You pick up your bamboo flute, and recoil in shock as out comes not the dulcet melody you had hoped to play, but rather a Brussels sprout! You play again, and again a Brussels sprout. A bamboo flute that plays sprouts! Fabulous! Puts that golden egg laying goose in its place.	3	1	テキ	ふえ	笛 (ふえ)
1193	axis	Trục	軸	axis, car, sprout, shoot	12	30	Car . . . shoot.		The Germans manufactured so many cars during World War II that it was almost as if they were sprouting from the factories of the Axis.	An absurd image, but what the heck - worked for me. Imagine a car going across a plain at a fast speed. Suddenly a single sprout (the only one to be seen) gets stuck to the car´s wheels, causing the car to fly around its axis.	JH	1	ジク		
1194	armor	Giáp	甲	armour, armor, roots	5	30	This kanji reverses the element for sprout, giving the image of roots being sent down into the earth by a seed planted in the rice field. From there you must invent a connection to the keyword, armor.	"* The primitive meaning is roots. Important to that word is the image of ""pushing downwards,"" as roots do."	"Funny.. this appeared to me as a pictograph of a samurai´s armor. Then I looked up images of the samurai armor and it is not even remotely similar. Then I realised it looks in fact like the belly of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which I somehow associated with the samurai armor because of the ""turtle samurai"" that appeared earlier. Fits me. The bit that pokes down is to protect the genitals, I guess."	It looks like a bird´s eye view of a tank (modern armor).	JH	1	コウ、カン、カ	きのえ	甲乙 (こうおつ), 装甲車 (そうこうしゃ)
1195	push	Áp	押	push, finger, fingers, armour, armor, roots	8	30	Fingers . . . roots. Compare and contrast with pluck (Frame 1187).		Push the roots down, instead of plucking the seedling.	Use your fingers to make sure the roots of your plant are deep underground by pushing them down, down, down.	JH	3	オウ	お.す、お.し-、お.っ-、お.さえる、おさ.える	押さえる (お.さえる), 押す (お.す)
1196	headland	Giáp	岬	headland, mountain, armour, armor, roots	8	30	Like the cape (Frame 164) and the promontory (Frame 840), the headland refers to a jut of land. Its elements: mountain . . . roots.		A headland is a mountain that is firmly rooted despite being surrounded on 3 sides by water. (Just like your head is a mountain surrounded by air on 3 sides, a headland!).	Headlands are natural forts; in fact, once men build castles on them, they become armoured mountains. (Gibralter, for example, is basically an armoured mountain).	JH	1	コウ	みさき	岬 (みさき)
1197	insert	Tháp	挿	insert, finger, fingers, thousand, armour, armor, roots	10	30	Fingers . . . thousand . . . roots. Observe how the writing order does not follow the elements in order, because the final stroke is used for two different elements.		A rice farmer´s delicate fingers have inserted 1,000 rooted seedlings into his field.	Imagine a crazy japanese hentai: multiple fingers and thousand of root-like tentacles are inserting themselves in... well, I think you can fill the rest.	JH	1	ソウ	さ.す、はさ.む	挿す (さ.す)
1198	speaketh	Thân :)	申	speaketh, monkey, sun, day, stick	5	30	"The olde English is used here to indicate a humble form of the third person singular of the verb ""to speak."" It is written by a tongue wagging in the mouth with a walking stick rammed through it and coming out at both ends."	"* While this kanji has obvious affinities to the ""seed"" group, it also happens to be the zodiacal sign of the monkey (the one who speaketh no evil, among other things). We shall therefore take monkey as its primitive meaning."	"I imagine thomeone who can not pronounth the ""s"" and speaketh like thith becauth they have a cane in their mouth."	"I had persistent trouble confusing this one with 曰 sayeth (#578). The way I keep it sorted out is that this one is used in ""moshi moshi"" when answering the phone, similar to the way an American would say ""hello, this is X speaking.""."	3	3	シン	もう.す、もう.し-、さる	申す (もう.す)
1199	expand	Thân	伸	expand, person, monkey, sun, day, stick	7	30	Person . . . monkey.		Here we see Mr. T. expanding his gang with some trained fighter monkeys.	A person expands into an ape man. I swear this is the only time I'll use Dragon Ball, but think of Goku expanding into that Saiyajin giant ape beast.	JH	2	シン	の.びる、の.ばす、の.べる、の.す	伸ばす (の.ばす), 伸びる (の.びる)
1200	gods	Thần	神	gods, altar, monkey, sun, day, stick	9	30	Altar . . . monkey.		"The Gods are gathered around debating Zeus´ latest purchase for Mount Olympus. A huge and extremely kitsch gilded altar in the shape of giant ""speak no evil"" monkey. Hera decides she will never let him go shopping alone again ."	Hinduism has many gods, not just one God. One of the most famous of these gods is Hanuman the monkey. Many altars are dedicated to him.	3	3	シン、ジン	かみ、かん-、こう-	神聖 (しんせい), 神経 (しんけい), 精神 (せいしん), 神 (かみ)
1201	search	Sưu	捜	search, finger, fingers, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch	10	30	Fingers . . . monkey . . . crotch.		The monkey searches around with his fingers for his crotch.	If you are familiar with the Monkey legends (西遊記 Journey to the West) there is a good image for this character: While searching for the end of the universe, monkey reaches to his crotch and urinates on Buddha´s fingers. (Update: new link http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYXFppaKLL4).	JH	2	ソウ、シュ、シュウ	さが.す	捜す (さが.す)
1202	fruit	Quả	果	fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood	8	30	The final stage of the seed is reached when the plant has reached its full growth (the tree) and comes to fruition, producing fruit full of new seeds that can return to the earth and start the process all over again. The main thing to notice here is the element for brains at the top, which might prove more helpful than rice field for creating an image. The writing, however, follows the order of a sun with a tree whose trunk runs through the sun.		If only Eve had used her brains and not taken the forbidden fruit from the tree.	Eve ate fruit from the tree and knowledge filled her brain.…　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　果汁　かじゅう (fruit juice)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　菓1122　課1123　(ﾗ): 裸1124.	4	3	カ	は.たす、はた.す、-は.たす、は.てる、-は.てる、は.て	果たす (は.たす), 果て (は.て), 果てる (は.てる)
1203	Candy	Quả	菓	candy, flowers, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood	11	30	Flowers . . . fruits.		This candy is made in the shape of a flower, each petal with the taste of a different fruit.	Candy is coloured like flowers and flavoured like fruit.	JH	2	カ		
1204	chapter	Khoá (khoá học)	課	chapter, say, words, keitai, mouth, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood	15	30	Words . . . fruit.		After I finish each chapter of RTK, I eat a piece of fruit to celebrate all the new words I´ve learned. (Thanks Misha!).	"Words signify the written words in a book. The fruit represents something whole, complete. A chapter in a book often offers a complete idea, setting, or account. It´s good to disambiguate the keyword from paragraph (#82). To reinforce the kanji, imagine eating a fruit at the end of each chapter of Tolstoy´s ""War and Peace"" to reward yourself. (If you ate a fruit at the end of each paragraph, you´d very quickly run out of fruit)."	4	2	カ		
1205	naked	Khoả	裸	naked, cloak, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood	13	30	Cloak . . . fruit.		Here we have Adam and Eve eating of the forbidden fruit and realizing they were naked, and so clothing themselves in a cloak.	Hey honey, I´m naked underneath this cloak. I´ve got some nice melons and a fresh peach waiting for you. Don´t you want to taste my forbidden fruits...?	JH	1	ラ	はだか	裸 (はだか)
1206	ax	Cân	斤	axe	4	31	This character represents a picture of an ax, the two vertical lines being the handle and the horizontal strokes of the blade. Note the writing order carefully.		Errata: stroke order in 4th edition is wrong. Top stroke is first.	The axe-wielding maniac nails a poor victim, right under a cliff. Blood everywhere! (thanks scottamus!).	JH	1	キン	おの	
1207	chop	Tích (phân tích)	析	chop, tree, wood, axe	8	31	Tree . . . ax.		We chop down trees with axes to analyze their rings.	Wood + axe = chop? how much more simple can it get?	JH	1	セキ		
1208	place	Sở	所	place, door, one, ceiling, flag, axe	8	31	Door . . . ax.		You outsiders better learn your place! An axe stuck in the door when you get home is a pretty good indicator that this might not be the best place for you.	A place for everything and everything in its place. To the right of the door is the standard place for the axe.	3	3	ショ	ところ、-ところ、どころ、とこ	所 (ところ)
1209	pray	Kỳ	祈	pray, altar, axe	8	31	Altar . . . ax.		A warrior prays for victory before the battle. He kneels at the altar, his battle axe at the ready.	Religious freedom has not always been respected throughout history, and nobody knew how to force religion on an indigenous people like the Spanish missionaries. They posted conquistadors at either side of the altars at the local missions, and if anybody refused to pray, they would get the axe.	JH	2	キ	いの.る	祈る (いの.る)
1210	near	Cận	近	near, axe, road	7	31	Ax . . . road. Be careful not to confuse with draw near (Frame 204) or bystander (Frame 1090).		The end is near. The axe-murderer is waiting for you on the road...	An absurd image, but working for me: two points A and B are separated by a long road. To make A and B near, take an ax, cut a big chunk of road, and the work is done.	2	4	キン、コン	ちか.い	近い (ちか.い)
1211	fold	Triết	折	fold, finger, fingers, axe	7	31	"Fingers . . . ax. Hint: make an image out of the Japanese art of ""origami"" (paper-folding)."		It´s the latest Japanese game show: Forudo! Contestants are given a sheet of paper and are told to fold it into a complex origami shape. If they´re not done in 60 seconds, a huge axe descends from the ceiling and chops their work in half. Contestants know to recoil their hands from the falling axe, but some have been so absorbed in folding, they ignore the buzzer and get their fingers chopped off.	Fold some origami into the shape of an axe with your fingers. It´s even as sharp, so watch out for paper cuts!	4	3	セツ	お.る、おり、お.り、-お.り、お.れる	折る (お.る), 折れる (お.れる), 折 (おり)
1212	philosophy	Triết	哲	philosophy, fold, finger, fingers, axe, mouth	10	31	Fold . . . mouth.		A two-hour lesson of philosophy in high school. All the students, bored to death, are folding sheets of paper into planes, love notes or whatever, while the mouth of the teacher is talking about Platon, Kierkegaard and many other notorious philosophers.	I fold my mouth, therefore I am.	JH	1	テツ	さとい、あき.らか、し.る、さば.く	
1213	departed	Thệ (chết, đi k trở lại nữa)	逝	departed, fold, finger, fingers, axe, road	10	31	"The connotation is of a ""dearly departed"" who has passed away. The elements: fold . . . road."		One of the dearest of Japan´s dearly departed is Sasaki Sadako, who developed Leukemia after the bombing of Hiroshima, and became famous for folding more than a thousand paper cranes, never giving up hope. To this day, people in Hiroshima still fold origami cranes in her memory. For this character, let us imagine a parade in her honor, the entire road lined with folded cranes.	The BIG ONE hits Tokyo. You see a news report of the recently departed victims who died when the roads folded (from the earthquake).	JH	1	セイ	ゆ.く、い.く	逝く (ゆ.く)
1214	vow	Thệ	誓	vow, fold, finger, fingers, axe, say, words, keitai, mouth	14	31	Fold . . . words.		"This Japanese couple wrote the vows that they had made to each other onto a piece of paper and then folded it into an origami, and put it somewhere in their appartment. To everybody else it is an origami, but to them it is also a symbol of their vows. -- ""the folded words are vows"". Note : in this story and a few others I use the image of an origami for the primitive ""fold""."	A Japanese wedding tradition is to present each other with origami cranes with their vows written on the BOTTOM.	JH	1	セイ	ちか.う	誓う (ちか.う)
1216	temporarily	Tạm	暫	temporarily, executioner, chop off, car, axe, sun, day	15	31	Chop off . . . days.		Your car has been savagely (see steadily) attacked by an ax. It will be some days before your car is fixed. So you are temporarily without car.	Today is Car Axe Day. The day where you can temporarily (today only) attack cars using an axe without punishment.	JH	1	ザン	しばら.く	
1217	steadily	Tiệm (dần dần, tiệm cận)	漸	steadily, water, water droplets, water pistol, executioner, chop off, car, axe	14	31	Water . . . chop off.		I imagine firemen working steadily to rescue a man from a crashed car. First, they spray it with water; then, they use an axe to break through the window.	Water + Car + Axe: The steadily rising water was filling the car, but the firefighters took their axe and broke the window, getting me out.	JH	1	ゼン	やや	
1218	severance	Đoạn	断	severance, fishhook, rice, axe	11	31	Fishhook . . . rice . . . ax.		[Based on fuaburisu´s] A man puts some rice on a fishhook as bait, but catches a fish so strong, he needs to take out his axe and sever the line lest he be dragged into the depths.	When you get the ax at work, use your severance pay to buy fishhooks and rice. At least that way you can eat sushi.	5	3	ダン	た.つ、ことわ.る、さだ.める	断る (ことわ.る), 断つ (た.つ)
1219	substance	Chất	質	substance, axe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, axe2	15	31	Two axes . . . shells.		What is this substance on this clam? I´ve already broken 2 axes on it! (Good question...質問).	Another keyword that I do not like by Heisig. 質【しつ】 (n,n-suf) quality. Story: Your at a local ax dealer and you have TWO AXES which you are testing for QUALITY by trying to split CLAMS right down the opening. Picture yourself succeeding with one AX and then some weird SUBSTANCE comes out of the shell...eww (I don´t like clams).	5	4	シツ、シチ、チ	たち、ただ.す、もと、わりふ	質問 (しつもん), 質実 (しつじつ), 本質 (ほんしつ), 質屋 (しちや), 人質 (ひとじち)
1220	reject	Xích	斥	reject, axe, drop	5	31	Ax . . . a drop of.		The kids at school used to reject me.. Made me feel really bad till I brought my axe to school. See the drop of blood on it?	The quality expectations are very high in our axe manufacturing facility. If there´s one drop of rust on any axe, it gets rejected.	JH	1	セキ	しりぞ.ける	
1221	accusation	Tố	訴	accusation, say, words, keitai, mouth, reject, axe, drop	12	31	Words . . . reject.		I strongly reject the accusation implicit in your words.	Words that make you feel rejected.	JH	1	ソ	うった.える	訴える (うった.える)
1222	yesterday	Tạc	昨	yesterday, sun, day, saw	9	31	Day . . . saw.		One can use a simple word play to remember this character - the day that I saw before today was yesterday.	Yester-DAY, all my troubles seemed SAW far away...	4	3	サク		
1223	lie	Trá	詐	lie, say, words, keitai, mouth, saw	12	31	The lie in this character refers to falsehoods and fibs. Its elements: words . . . saw.		Pinnochio gets frustrated that every time he utters a word of a lie, his nose grows and he has to get the saw out again.	Her lies are words that cut not like a knife, no not cleanly, but savagely like a saw.	JH	1	サ	いつわ.る	
1224	make	Tác	作	make, person, saw	7	31	Person . . . saw.		Mr T.´s favorite magazine is Make. He loves to make things. But he´s a purist: he only uses saws, no power tools.	"When the A-Team crash lands on a deserted island, Mr. T salvages a saw from the wreckage and says, ""I don´t know about y´all foos, but I´m gonna make a raft.""."	2	4	サク、サ	つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り	作為 (さくい), 著作 (ちょさく), 豊作 (ほうさく), 作る (つく.る)
1225	snow	Tuyết	雪	snow, rain, weather, broom	11	31	Rain that undergoes a change so that it can be swept aside with a broom is snow.		SNOW isn´t all that different from RAIN, except it can be removed with a BROOM because it only forms in freezing temperatures.	Rain just soaks into the soil. Snow has to be swept away with a broom...　RTK2:　セツ　積雪　せきせつ(pilled up snow).	2	3	セツ	ゆき	雪 (ゆき)
1226	record	Lục	録	record, metal, gold, dustpan, broom, grains of rice	16	31	Metal . . . broom . . . rice. Note how the final stroke of the broom is extended slightly when an element below is attached directly to it.		A monk won a gold metal for breaking the current record for most swept rice in one minute.	This character is about a recording for a music box. The tines of the mechanism are like a metal broom and the little pins on the cylinder are like metal grains of rice.	4	2	ロク		
1228	inquire	Tầm (tìm, sưu tầm)	尋	inquire, broom, craft, mouth, glue	12	31	Broom . . . craft . . . mouth . . . glue.		The policed inquired into the erotica scandal. They tried to sweep away the evidence, but some of it stuck. (Note: katakana エロ ero in the middle of this kanji is the Japanese word for erotica.).	"As a verb this means, this means ""to ask; to enquire; to search; to look for; to look into; to investigate;"". Imagine the police inquiring in an in-depth investigation. They are interrogating a suspect. But the suspect has a crafty mouth and is very sly. He/she also knows when to keep their mouth shut(glued) at the right moments to avoid self-incrimination. As a final measure, the police torture the suspect by tickling him/her with a broom while they inquire."	JH	1	ジン	たず.ねる、ひろ	尋ねる (たず.ねる)
1229	hurry	Cấp	急	hurry, bound up, broom, heart	9	31	Bound up . . . broom . . . heart.		She was always bound to a broom, her heart pounding in a hurry to finish before she was punished for being slow.	Fantasia: Bound up brooms out of control send Mickey´s heart racing--he has to hurry and figure out how to stop them before the magician returns!	3	4	キュウ	いそ.ぐ、いそ.ぎ	急ぐ (いそ.ぐ)
1230	calm	Ổn	穏	calm, wheat, cereal, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart	16	31	Wheat . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart.		The farmer is calm knowing that his wheat fields are protected from vultures by his strawman with a heart (all the better to do the job properly).	This whole kanji is a picture of calmness. The wheat has been harvested and even the vultures sit calmly watching the humans sweep and clean-up after the harvest is over. Hearts are peaceful and calm at this time of the year. Even the days are calm without storm.	JH	1	オン	おだ.やか	穏やか (おだ.やか)
1231	encroach	Xâm	侵	encroach, person, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch	9	31	Person . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch. Gather the elements on the right into a composite image that can serve you in the next two frames.		The parson ENCROACHES on the French maid; driven wild by her little broom, dainty tiara and sinfully short skirt showing her knickers (crotch)!	Mr T. hits a condom salesman (broom + crown + crotch) over the head with a broom because the dude ENCROACHed Mr. T´s privates area during the sale.	JH	1	シン	おか.す	侵す (おか.す)
1232	immersed	Tẩm	浸	immersed, water, water droplets, water pistol, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch	10	31	Water . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch.		The French maid draws a bath for her amorous master, but slips and falls in - getting immersed. (thanks to Nukemarine for the French maid image!).	After being hit in the head with the broom, the condom salesman IMMERSED his head in some water.	JH	1	シン	ひた.す、ひた.る	浸す (ひた.す), 浸る (ひた.る)
1233	lie down	Tẩm (ngủ)	寝	lie down, house, turtle, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch	13	31	Do not confuse this key word with either the element for reclining or the character for prostrated (Frame 1035). Its primitive elements are: house . . . turtle . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch.		After work, the French maid goes home and lies down with a turtle. Turtle? Well, he´s sloooow and always hard... (thanks to Nukemarine and Wakela!).	After being hit on the head encroach (#1148), the condom salesman goes back to his house to lie down. He hasn´t made a single sale today, so he doesn´t have enough money to buy a pillow. He lies down on his pet turtle and cries himself to sleep.	JH	3	シン	ね.る、ね.かす、い.ぬ、みたまや、や.める	寝かす (ね.かす), 寝る (ね.る)
1234	lady	Phụ	婦	lady, woman, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel	11	31	Woman . . . broom . . . apron.		In high society, a lady is a woman who never touches a broom or an apron.	The LADY of the house is nothing more than a WOMAN who´s a HOUSEWIFE (BROOM and APRON anyone?).	5	3	フ	よめ	
1235	sweep	Tảo (quét)	掃	sweep, finger, fingers, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel	11	31	Fingers . . . broom . . . apron.		Whether I SWEEP something away with my FINGERS or my BROOM, I should always wear my APRON.	FINGERS of the HOUSEWIFE (in itself, holding a BROOM, with an APRON) busily SWEEP the floor.	JH	2	ソウ、シュ	は.く	掃く (は.く)
1236	hit	Đương (tương đương, đương thời)	当	hit, small, broom	6	31	Little . . . broom.		Some mothers use a small broom to hit their children when they misbehave.	"Here is a weird carnival game where you hold a broom like a javelin and throw it, trying to hit the center of a very small target. The target is so small, in fact, that if someone does manage to hit it, the operator turns in surprise and says, ""Whoa, really?! (本当?!)""."	2	3	トウ	あ.たる、あ.たり、あ.てる、あ.て、まさ.に、まさ.にべし	当たる (あ.たる), 当てる (あ.てる)
1238	contend	Tranh	争	contend, bound up, rake	6	31	Bound up . . . rake.		This can be seen as a Retarius, a roman gladiator. The Retiarius always fought with a net to bound up his opponents, and with a trident, which was able to pierce enemies after tying them. They were terrific contenders, so they were only paired with gladiators specially equipped to fight them.	A boxing ring is bound up by the ropes. The contender is cheating and using a rake.	4	3	ソウ	あらそ.う、いか.でか	争う (あらそ.う)
1239	clean	Tịnh (thanh tịnh)	浄	clean, water, water droplets, water pistol, contend, bound up, rake	9	31	Water . . . contend.		Separate the primitives. Cleaning the garden involves watering the lawn and binding up all the leaves with a rake.	The water contends against the dirt in the ultimate battle for cleaninless.	JH	1	ジョウ、セイ	きよ.める、きよ.い	
1240	matter	Sự	事	matter, one, ceiling, mouth, rake	8	31	This key word here refers to abstract matters. The elements are: one . . . mouth . . . rake. Note how the rake handle reaches out the top and bottom of the character.		I had to take one day off from work due to ´personal matters´ after stepping on a rake and having the handle snap up and smack me across the mouth. I certainly wasn´t going to tell anyone about it.	Just one word about this matter from your mouth and you will find this rake across it.	3	4	ジ、ズ	こと、つか.う、つか.える	事物 (じぶつ), 無事 (ぶじ), 師事 (しじ), 事 (こと)
1241	T'ang	Đường (nhà Đường, nước đường)	唐	T’ang, cave, rake, mouth	10	31	The key word here refers of course to the T'ang Dynasty in China (and not to the name of the drink astronauts take with them into outer space, though this could be useful for the next frame). Its elements: cave . . . rake . . . mouth.		"Two archeologists are in a cave looking at Chinese artifacts from various eras. One picks up a rake and says, ""What about this – T´ang, do you think?"" The second puts the rake in his mouth and answers, ""Yes, it does tang a bit""."	Screw it, this character refers to the drink. The powdery orange substance is actually found on the floor of tropical caves, where trained aboriginal peoples use wooden rakes to rake the Tang into a pile before putting a bit of it in their mouths to see if it´s tasty or not.	JH		トウ	から	唐 (から)
1242	sugar	Đường	糖	sugar, rice, T’ang, cave, rake, mouth	16	31	Rice . . . T'ang.		Sugar made from rice has a tangy flavour.	The T´ang are the ones who began using sugar in China--of course, the first thing they tried it on was rice.	6	1	トウ		
1243	sane	Khang (yên)	康	ease, sane, cave, sieve, rake, grains of rice	11	31	Cave . . . sieve.		A psychiatric hospital is located in a CAVE. To determine, which patients are sane and can be released, they are given a SIEVE and asked to empty a bathtub (the sane ones take out the plug and get the water out with ease).	People on the cave age became more sane after they started using sieves to avoid eating harmful things with their grains. (This kanji is almost exclusively used to write 健康, health).	4	1	コウ		
1244	apprehend	Đãi (đuổi bắt)	逮	apprehend, sieve, rake, grains of rice, road	11	31	Think of apprehending criminals. The elements are: sieve . . . road.		Think police roadblocks. They act like road sieves, letting good people through but apprehending criminals.	"In Space Balls, they were combing the desert in order to apprehend Lone Star. Picture Dark Helmet saying ""Combing the desert failed, we must now sieve the road!""."	JH	1	タイ		
1245	Italy	Y	伊	italy, person, mop	6	31	"Used chiefly in proper names, and given the sound ""i,"" this kanji can be remembered as an abbreviation of Italy, for which it is still used today in Japan. Its primitives: person . . . mop."		"The ""boot"" of Italy has gotten Europe all muddy. Who else could mop it up but Mr T?"	Here I have Mister T cleaning up with a mop, a real mess of spaghetti, in front of the Piza (in Italy).	Names	1	イ	かれ	
1246	old boy	Quân (vua, anh, bạn bè tôn nhau cũng gọi là quân)	君	old boy, mop, mouth	7	31	The somewhat highbrow British term of address is chosen hereto represent the kanji for a form of address used towards one's juniors. It is composed of: mop . . . mouth.		"There´s a tendancy in Japan to make the younger members (kouhai) clean up after the older members (senpai) of a group, which results in a lot of grumbling and whining. ""Well old boy,"" a senpai might say, ""If you did as much work with the mop as you do with your mouth, you would have been done an hour ago""."	The Beatles, english old boys, had hairs like mop and a good singing mouth.	3	3	クン	きみ、-ぎみ	君 (きみ)
1247	flock	Quần	群	flock, old boy, mop, mouth, sheep	13	31	Old boys . . . sheep.		Good ol´ boys are like sheep; they tend to flock together.	"A little girl herder calls out, ""羊君、きて！"" to the sheeps and they flock to her at once."	5	2	グン	む.れる、む.れ、むら、むら.がる	群れ (む.れ), 群れる (む.れる)
1248	-proof	Nại (chịu)	耐	proof, comb, glue	9	31	"The key word is a suffix used to indicate ""safe from"" or ""protected against,"" as in the words rustproof, waterproof, and fireproof. It is composed of: comb . . . glue."		[akrodha] My comb is rust-proof, water-proof, and fire-proof. But unfortunately it is not idiot-proof--and I glued it to myself.	I spent $100 recently on this excellent rust-proof, water-proof, fire-proof comb. But two days after having bought it, I left it in my back pocket and sat down, snapping this expensive comb in half! I glued it back together, but now every time I try to comb through my thick hair, it just breaks apart again. I guess my comb is also glue-proof.	JH	1	タイ	た.える	耐える (た.える)
1249	demand	Nhu	需	demand, rain, weather, comb	14	31	"The sense of demand is best captured by thinking of the economic principle of ""supply and demand."" The primitives: rain . . . comb."		Supply and demand is a simple concept: when it rains, the demand for combs goes up to deal with wet hair.	If it´s raining combs, then the demand for them sure does drop.	JH	1	ジュ		
1250	Confucian	Nhu (nho giáo, học trò)	儒	confucian, person, demand, rain, weather, comb	16	31	Person . . . demand.		"No more Confucian jibba-jabba! I demand you tell me why it´s raining combs!""."	"One day, Mr. T started reading the little proverbs he found in fortune cookies, and with this newfound wisdom he became a Confucian scholar. He was suddenly in high demand as people came from all over to ask for his sage advice, immensely satisfied with suggestions such as, ""You will find happiness with a new love""."	JH	1	ジュ		
1251	edge	Đoan (đầu đoạn)	端	edge, vase, stand up, pick-axe, mountain, comb	14	31	Vase . . . mountain . . . comb.		When you stand a comb on its edge, it looks like the mountain (#768) kanji.	Have you ever seen those shots in movies where the hero is standing at the edge of a sheer mountain face, hair blowing in the wind? It probably wouldn´t seem so heroic if you saw him ten minutes earlier, when a crew of stylists was carefully combing his hair so it would fall perfectly.	JH	1	タン	はし、は、はた、-ばた、はな	端 (は), 端 (はし), 端 (はた)
1252	both	Lưỡng	両	both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel	6	31	Ceiling . . . belt . . . mountain. Note that the writing order follows the order in which the primitives are given here.		Primatives celing; belt; mountain as per Cumulative Errata. See volfy post for link. Both effective ways to commit suicide, hang your self from the celing with your belt or jump off a mountain.	Both of Tiger Wood´s initials is the logo on his belt... 　　　　　　　　RTK2:　リョウ　両親　りょうしん(one´s parents).	3	3	リョウ	てる、ふたつ	
1253	full	Mãn	満	full, water, water droplets, water pistol, flowers, both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel	12	31	Water . . . flowers . . . both. Given the abstract nature of this last primitive, you may want to borrow the image from the previous frame.		Add water THEN the flowers. With both the vase will be full.	I was thirsty so I gulped down the water. Then I realized I was also hungry. So I ate the flowers. Yes, I am responsible for both the missing water and the missing flowers. Yes, I´m afraid both. Am I still hungry or thirsty? Thank you for asking! How kind! But no, I feel quite full now.	4	3	マン、バン	み.ちる、み.つ、み.たす	満たす (み.たす), 満ちる (み.ちる)
1254	brush-stroke	Hoạ, hoạch (hoạ sĩ, kế hoạch)	画	brush-stroke, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, shovel	8	31	In forming an image for the key word, it is helpful to know that this kanji is used for artistic representations (like a completed painting), and as a counter for the number of brush-strokes in a character (as, for instance, in Indexes II and III at the end of this book). Its elements are: ceiling . . . sprout . . . shovel.		You decide one day to paint a kanji on your ceiling. Unfortunately, you don’t have a brush, so, being innovative, you use a sprout. Knowing it could be messy, you search for a drop-cloth, but can’t find one. Instead, you put a shovel down on the floor to catch any drips resulting from the BRUSH-STROKEs.	To paint a kanji in your ceiling with only natural materials, you use a sprout as a brush and shovel some dirt to use as paint for your strokes. [modified from johnskb´s].	2	4	ガ、カク、エ、カイ	えが.く、かく.する、かぎ.る、はかりごと、はか.る	画家 (がか), 図画 (ずが), 映画 (えいが)
1255	tooth	Xỉ	歯	tooth, stop, footprint, bag of rice, shovel	12	31	Footprint . . . rice . . . shovel.		Stop shoveling rice into your mouth, you´ll hurt a tooth! Use chopsticks instead.	My dentist used his foot and a shovel to dislodge the rice stuck between my teeth.	3	3	シ	よわい、は、よわ.い、よわい.する	歯 (は)
1256	bend	Khúc	曲	bend, rice field, brains, stick	6	31	Picture yourself grabbing hold of the two strokes poking out the top of the kanji and wrenching them apart, thus giving the sense of bend. If you think of them as deriving from the element for brains beneath (of course, the middle stroke has been reduplicated and pulled out to where it can be grabbed hold of), you can associate the key word with bending someone's mind to your own point of view.		"It looks like the mouth of Bender the robot, from Matt Groening´s animated series ""Futurama"". Thus, I use the character Bender the robot as a primitive."	"Also means ""melody"". Think of it as a pictogram of a guitar where you have to bend the strings to make a melody."	3	3	キョク	ま.がる、ま.げる	曲がる (ま.がる), 曲げる (ま.げる)
1257	cadet	Tào (lũ bọn, chúng mày)	曹	cadet, one, bend, sun, day	11	31	This character is written in the order of its elements: one . . . bend . . . sun.		A space cadet eager to make one bend around the sun. (a dangerous maneuver).	Bender lasted just one day in the space cadets.	JH	1	ソウ、ゾウ	つかさ、ともがら、へや	
1258	encounter	Tao	遭	encounter, cadet, one, bend, sun, day, road	14	31	Cadet . . . road.		Close encounters of the third kind. The space cadet encounters aliens on the road.	"Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) has an ""encounter of the third kind"" on the road. Reference to Steven Spielberg´s 1977 movie ""Close Encounters of the Third Kind"". Also a reference to popular stories of people reportedly chased by UFO´s while driving on the road."	JH	1	ソウ	あ.う、あ.わせる	遭う (あ.う)
1259	rowing	Tảo	漕	rowing, water, water droplets, water pistol, cadet, one, bend, sun, day	14	31	Water . . . cadet.		Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) is rowing, during some army exercise, and he´s very afraid of water (Bender is a robot).	The space cadet is in training, rowing in the water (see it splash).	Names		ソウ	こ.ぐ、はこ.ぶ	
1260	vat	Tào	槽	vat, tree, wood, cadet, one, bend, sun, day	15	31	Tree . . . cadet.		Also as part of some army survival exercise, the cadets (including Bender see frame 1172) are sent into the woods to build a vat (for collecting water for example).	Bender the Cadet (kudos to Fuaburisu) is found on an army training exercise, hiding behind a tree, getting drunk on the famous scotch whiskey Vat 69.	JH	1	ソウ	ふね	
1261	Big Dipper	Đấu (sao đẩu)	斗	big dipper, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle	4	31	The Big Dipper here is of course the constellation of Ursa Major, of which this kanji is a sort of pictographic representation.	"* Since we already have a primitive element for a ""dipper"" - namely, the ladle - we shall let this one stand for a measuring cup. By the way, it would make a rather large one, since the kanji is also used for a measure of about 18 liters!"	"Ông công ông táo, thả cá Since the meaning of ""big dipper"" is rather specific and the sense of measurement seems to be a more common usage, I concentrate on the primative meaning of measuring cup. This is a pictograph, with the first two strokes representing the measuring ticks on the side of the cup."	Is it just me, or do all of these traditional kanji pictographs look like they were drawn by a retarded bunny rabbit?	JH	1	ト、トウ		
1262	fee	Liệu (nguyên, nhiên liệu)	料	fee, rice, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle	10	31	Measuring cup . . . rice.		When buying rice, the fee is calculated by the cup. Naturally we don´t just use any cup; it has to be a proper measuring cup.	Samurai(s) once received their fee in the form of rice that had been carefully weighed in a measuring cup beforehand.	4	4	リョウ		
1263	department	Khoa	科	department, wheat, cereal, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle	9	31	Think here of the faculty or department you entered in university, using the elements: measuring cup . . . wheat.		The national DEPARTMENT of WHEATS and MEASURES. Get it? This one was hard until I came up with this.	Agriculture/astronomy departments...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　科学　かがく (science).	2	3	カ		
1264	map	Đồ	図	map, pent in, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle	7	31	"Pent in . . . Big Dipper. Hint: among the songs dating from the days of slavery that have become part of American folklore is one called ""Follow the Drinking Gourd."" It referred to the nighttime travel of runaway slaves (those pent in) who had no maps other than the stars to guide them, among them the bright and predominant Big Dipper, the ""Drinking Gourd."""		Can´t see direct relation to Big Dipper (#1177) since its writing order is completely different. As raulir noted, it´s written as overlapping at the last stroke of ツ and the first of メ. I take it as a pictograph or treasure map. Two dots represent big trees and the cross (marking the treasure) is placed relative to them.	A pictograph of a treasure map. Two steps east then X marks the spot. 図る はかる attempt, deceive; 地図 ちず map; 意図する いとする make a goal, intend to do.	2	4	ズ、ト	え、はか.る	図画 (ずが), 図表 (ずひょう), 地図 (ちず), 図る (はか.る)
1265	utilize	Dụng	用	utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick	5	31	Meat . . . walking stick. Be sure to keep this key word distinct from that for use (Frame 1065). The stroke order is exactly as you would expect it from the order of the primitive elements as given.	* As a primitive element, we shall substitute the image of a screwdriver, perhaps the most utilized of all tools around the house.	To tenderize meat in an emergency wilderness situation, just utilize your walking stick!	"I´ll confuse this with use (#990), so build a distinction right from the start. For me, ""utilize"" has an artificial, business-speak connotation; you only utilize ""utilize"" when you´re trying to puff up what you´re saying and sound important. So: ""BioTools Inc introduces the FG2000 screwdriver, utilizing the our latest FleshGrip(tm) technology!"" I´m seeing this as a picture of a stubby screwdriver with a handle made of flesh, a short shaft, and prongs to hold a screw in place until you drive it."	2	4	ヨウ	もち.いる	用いる (もち.いる)
1266	comfortable	Dung	庸	commonplace, comfortable, cave, rake, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick	11	31	Cave . . . rake . . . screwdriver.		To live a comfortable life, single men need only a cave for living, a rake for cleaning and a screwdriver for fixing.	When I first moved in to my new cave, all I had was a bed (see bed (#592)). But now I´ve settled in, got myself a few handy things like a rake and a screwdriver, and made myself more comfortable.	JH	1	ヨウ		
1267	equip	Bị	備	equip, person, flowers, cliff, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick	12	31	Person . . . flowers . . . cliff . . . screwdriver. In cases like this you can jumble up the primitive into any order that seems best for the composition of a story, provided you feel confident about the relative position that those primitives take to one another in the completed character.		Mr. T wants to climb up and pick the flowers at the top of the cliff. He equips himself with screwdrivers to use as climbing spikes to reach the top of the cliff. Imagine a large AMMO belt full of philips screwdrivers instead of bullets.	An RPG where you´re using Mr T as a character. Before you enter a battle, you equip the flower cliff screwdriver. This is a small screwdriver obtained at the bottom of a cliff that, when used in battle, shoots out pink flowers. When they touch the ground in front of the enemy, they create a massive cliff, and the ground under the enemy falls away into the sea. Picture being at the item select menu and EQUIPping this item just before facing a tough boss.	5	3	ビ	そな.える、そな.わる、つぶさ.に	備える (そな.える), 備わる (そな.わる)
1268	once upon a time	Tích	昔	once upon a time, salad, flowers, one, floor, sun, day	8	32	Salad . . . days. This is the character with which Japanese fairytales commonly begin.		Once upon a time, the children were forced to eat their salad every day.	"For those who don´t know the expression, ""salad days"" means the time of one´s youth. (originally from Shakespeare´s Antony and Cleopatra - see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salad_days). I suspect Heisig chose ""salad"" as the name for the radical just for this phrase..."	3	3	セキ、シャク	むかし	昔日 (むかしにち), 昔年 (むかしねん), 昔時 (むかしとき), 昔 (むかし)
1269	confused	Thác (lẫn lộn, lầm lẫm, thác loạn)	錯	confused, metal, gold, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day	16	32	Metal . . . once upon a time.		A long time ago, people of the world got confused because there were so many kinds of Metal coins. today we only have the euro.	"Once upon a time, it was thought that the ancient ""art"" of alchemy could transform anything into gold. At that time, people were obviously confused about the difference between reality and myth. (Arguably people are still as confused as ever, just about different things now.)."	JH	1	サク、シャク		
1270	borrow	Tá	借	borrow, person, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day	10	32	Person . . . once upon a time.		"Once upon a time I let Mr T borrow my salad bowl, but he won´t give it back. ""This be mine now, foo!""."	Mr. T borrowed a copy of Cinderella and won´t give it back. He keeps watching it over and over again, trying to figure out how the Fairy Godmother does her magic.	4	4	シャク	か.りる	借りる (か.りる)
1271	pity	Tích (tiếc)	惜	pity, Freud, state of mind, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day	11	32	"State of mind . . . once upon a time. The sense of the key word is that of a lost opportunity or bad turn of affairs, as in the phrase ""What a pity!"""		What a pity! My state of mind when i think of the opportunities I missed from once upon a time.	"Data says ""What a pity"" when he hears that once upon a time there were no robots."	JH	1	セキ	お.しい、お.しむ	惜しい (お.しい), 惜しむ (お.しむ)
1272	set aside	Thố (đặt, để)	措	set aside, finger, fingers, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day	11	32	Fingers . . . once upon a time.		Long ago our ancestors set aside the use of fingers and began to use cutlery. (Raichu,11-7-2006) The way I remember it´s 昔 once upon a time (#1184) rather than 旧 olden times (#35) is that they began to use cutlery to eat salad. (I also think about how when you visit the Medieval Times theme park, which is set in Once upon a time, their gimmick is that you eat with your fingers.).	Once upon a time... Oh hell, you´re just too old for this. You close your fairy tale book and set it aside, pushing it away with your fingers.	JH	1	ソ	お.く	
1273	scatter	Tán	散	scatter, salad, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster	12	32	Salad . . . flesh . . taskmaster.		The taskmaster is dissatisfied with the meal she´s served, and scatters the salad & meat across the floor for the servants to clean up.	Perhaps you´ve heard of Nyotaimori or Nantaimori (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyotaimori) in which sushi is ate from the flesh of a naked person, the story comes easily. Scatter salad over the flesh of the taskmaster in preperation for some nantaimori :).	4	3	サン	ち.る、ち.らす、-ち.らす、ち.らかす、ち.らかる、ばら	散らかす (ち.らかす), 散らかる (ち.らかる), 散らす (ち.らす), 散る (ち.る)
1274	twenty	Trấp, niệm	廿	twenty	4	32	The two tens joined at the bottom by a short line is actually the old character for twenty, which we might as well learn since we need its primitive form. It is written the same as salad, except for the shorter final stroke.		A generation is 30, one stroke less is twenty.	Ten plus ten is twenty (see generation (#28)).	Names		ジュウ、ニュウ	にじゅう	
1275	commoner	Thứ	庶	commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue	11	32	Caverns . . . oven fire.		Commoners have to huddle in caverns around a campfire, while higher class people get heating and central air conditioning in a hotel.	If you are so poor that you are a commoner, you will have to live twenty commoners to a cavern, with only one fire for everyone to share.	JH	1	ショ		
1276	intercept	Già	遮	intercept, commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue, road	14	32	Commoner . . . road.		The commoners are revolting! We must intercept them on the road before they reach the castle!	If don´t want your secret message to be intercepted, make sure your deliveryman is dressed as a commoner while traveling on the road.	JH	1	シャ	さえぎ.る	遮る (さえぎ.る)
1277	seat	Tịch	席	seat, caverns, cave, twenty, towel	10	32	Caverns . . . towel.		Remember those poor commoners huddled in groups of 20 in a cave? The only thing they had for a seat was some old toweling (while their lords could recline on luxurious couches).	You´re tired from walking the tour at this cavern and there´s no benches to sit down on, so you take a towel and sling it up into a hammock-like seat using the stalagmites. (Big no-no).	4	3	セキ	むしろ	
1278	degrees	Độ	度	degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch	9	32	This key word refers to a gradation of measurement, not to academic diplomas. Its primitives: caverns . . . crotch.		The cavern refugees are so poor that they can´t afford thermometers. So, the menfolk expose their crotches inside the cavern, and approximate the temperature in degrees from how shrivelled everything looks downstairs...	The cave is twenty degrees cooler than the outdoors. Twenty male crotches experience shrinkage.	3	4	ド、ト、タク	たび、-た.い	度胸 (どきょう), 制度 (せいど), 限度 (げんど), 法度 (ほうど), 度 (たび)
1279	transit	Độ	渡	transit, water, water droplets, water pistol, degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch	12	32	Water . . . degrees.		This particular form of transit is a ferry (one of the actual meanings of this character). Naturally it can only cross the water if it´s not frozen, so the temperature must be above 0 degrees.	The transit system in Tokyo is one of the best in the wrold, but why is it that when it is 35 degrees outside, it is about 2 degrees on the train? Or when it is 2 degrees outside, it is 35 degrees inside the train. This degree of difference means I am always sweating then getting the chills! I think I caught a fever!	JH	3	ト	わた.る、-わた.る、わた.す	渡す (わた.す), 渡る (わた.る)
1280	bustle	Bôn	奔	bustle, large, St. Bernard, haystack, ten, needle, needle3, ten3	8	32	The hustle and bustle of this character is depicted by a St. Bernard dog and a haystack.		Hustle and bustle = a big St. Bernard dog frisking about in a haystack, knocking it down and spreading the hay about, after the field hands just stacked it up.	A bustle is also the name for the big wire-framed skirts that women used to wear. Here´s a St. Bernard dog jammed ass-first into the top of a haystack, looking like some kind of proper Victorian-era lady as he struggles to get out.	JH	1	ホン	はし.る	
1281	erupt	Phun	噴	erupt, mouth, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3	15	32	Mouth . . . haystack . . . clams.		History of Pompei: An unexpect eruption and from the mouths of the volcano come lava that threatens the farmers collecting haystacks in the fields and the fisherman catching shells on the coast.	A bit nasty (but makes the whole thing much easier to remember) is to take the right side and call it a bearded clam. For erupt, you can make your own story about the mouth/opening on the left.	JH	1	フン	ふ.く	噴く (ふ.く)
1282	tomb	Phần	墳	tomb, soil, dirt, ground, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3	15	32	Soil . . . haystack . . . clams. In order not to confuse this kanji with that for a grave (Frame 246), something like the image of an Egyptian tomb should be adopted, with all its special connotations.		After the eruption all is a tomb. The soil has covered the remains of the farmers gathering haystacks and of the fisherman collecting shells.	Using soil and hay to make bricks, the Egyptians built the pyramids to entomb the Pharaohs along with all of their money.	JH	1	フン		
1283	aroused	Phân (phẫn)	憤	aroused, Freud, state of mind, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3	15	32	State of mind . . . haystack . . . clams.		Think of the angry state of mind aroused at finding all your clams buried under your haystack stolen, gone!	Data was aroused/indignant when he saw what the volcano had done to the farmers building their haystacks and the fishermen collecting their shells . The tragedy of it all aroused him so much he didn´t even notice he was feeling emotion.	JH	1	フン	いきどお.る	憤る (いきどお.る)
1284	bake	Thiêu	焼	bake, hearth fire, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3	12	32	Hearth . . . straw man. Take care to distinguish this kanji from cook (Frame 507) and burn (Frame 549) when you compose your story.		Ah, there´s no better way to bake a pizza than an oven fueled by a burning strawman. And if you listen carefully, there are stifled strawman screams coming from the kitchen. Think of this image: http://users.mtrx.net/funnypics/content/-rdm1-ABCD1234-rdm1-/2005/2005-08-23-0002/Doughboy.jpg.	Too lofty (#2095)尭 a career choice for the strawman becoming a baker. He was fired soon after starting his first shift. Literally!...　　　RTK2:　ショウ　全焼　ぜんしょう(entirely destroyed by fire).	4	2	ショウ	や.く、や.き、や.き-、-や.き、や.ける	焼く (や.く), 焼ける (や.ける)
1285	daybreak	Hiếu	暁	daybreak, sun, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3	12	32	Sun . . . straw man.		The sun rising beside a straw man in a corn field is a classic cartoon depiction of daybreak.	The first person to see the sun at daybreak is of course the straw man who stands outside all day.	JH	1	ギョウ、キョウ	あかつき、さと.る	暁 (あかつき)
1286	half	Bán	半	half, small, ten, needle	5	32	Although the writing order is different, one can remember the appearance of this character by seeing it as a little needle - the kind used for splitting hairs in half. (Again, according to rule, little takes a stroke beneath it in order to be placed over an element that has no horizontal line at the top.)		"Imagine karate chopping the number three in half with a WALKING STICK and pausing the picture just as the first ""board"" breaks."	I think of this as a pictograph, there are three boards to cut, the first one is already in half and there are still two more to go.	2	5	ハン	なか.ば	半ば (なか.ば)
1287	consort	Bạn	伴	consort, person, half	7	32	Person . . . half.		"The person who is your consort is most commonly ""your other half""."	Mr. T wants to splits himself in half so he can be his own CONSORT.	JH	1	ハン、バン	ともな.う	同伴 (どうはん), 随伴 (ずいはん), 伴う (ともな.う)
1288	paddy ridge	Bạn	畔	paddy-ridge, rice field, brains, half	10	32	Rice field . . . half. The key word here refers to the ridges that rise up between the sections of a rice paddy.		A PADDY-RIDGE divides the RICE FIELD in HALF.	Think about a large rice field as a big square. Then you draw a line down the middle, halving it into two. Then you draw a line across the middle, halving it again into four... These halvings are paddy-ridges that separate the rice field into separate sections. I dunno the reason why, but that´s how it´s done.	JH	1	ハン	あぜ、くろ、ほとり	
1289	judgment	Phán	判	judgement, half, sword, sabre, saber	7	32	Half . . . saber. You might recall the famous judgment of King Solomon, who offered to slice a baby in two with a saber to give half to each of the mothers who claimed it as her own.		In the bible, King Solomon´s JUDGMENT was admired not by saying to cut the baby in HALF with the SWORD, but that it revealed who the true mother was.	It takes good judgement to cut things in exactly half with a saber.	5	3	ハン、バン	わか.る	判定 (はんてい), 判明 (はんめい), 裁判 (さいばん)
1291	ticket	Khoán	券	ticket, quarter, sword, dagger	8	32	Quarter . . . dagger.		Entering the movie, the dude asks for your ticket, so he can tear it in half. He looks at you funny when you hand him a ticket already torn in half. He quietly tears the stub into quarters after you show him your dagger with a smile.	In Japan, the JR railway ju-hachi-kippu seasonal discount ticket can be cut into quarters with a dagger and shared with your friends. (its actually sort-of true).	5	2	ケン		
1292	scroll	Quyển	巻	scroll, quarter, snake, self	9	32	Quarter . . . snake. The key word refers to a manuscript rolled up into a scroll, not to a hanging scroll (Frame 435).		At a mysterious bazaar, you happen to come across something interesting: a rolled-up scroll for only 25¢. You buy it up impulsively until you realize that the powerful spell contained within is cursed by a poisonous snake. If you try to cast this spell, the snake will pop out of nowhere and bite you! Hrmph. No wonder it was so cheap...	How to make snake maki: Take a snake. Roll it up in rice and nori (seaweed paper) like a scroll. Cut into quarters and serve on a wooden geta with ginger and wasabi.	6	2	カン、ケン	ま.く、まき、ま.き	巻き (ま.き), 巻く (ま.く)
1293	sphere	Quyển	圏	sphere, pent in, scroll, quarter, snake, self	12	32	This key word refers to a realm or orbit, not to a ball. Its elements: pent in . . . scroll.		I assosiate scrolls with spell casting, the efect of this spell is pent in a certain sphere of influence, outside it no damage is done.	[RPG] You´re fighting a powerful enemy. Your mage uses a scroll/quartersnake of protection, and he´s pent in a sphere of protection.	JH	1	ケン	かこ.い	
1294	victory	Thắng	勝	victory, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, power, muscle, arnold	12	32	Moon . . . quarter . . . muscle.		After your VICTORY cut your enemy´s FLESH into QUARTERs to show your POWER.	After England´s victory over Scottish rebel William Wallace, they had his flesh drawn and quartered and then sent around Britain to demonstrate their power.	3	3	ショウ	か.つ、-が.ち、まさ.る、すぐ.れる、かつ	勝つ (か.つ), 勝る (まさ.る)
1295	wisteria	Đằng	藤	wisteria, flowers, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, grains of rice	18	32	Flower . . . moon . . . quarter . . . rice grains.		According to legend, the great Ogaki wisteria tree grew and flowered from magical rice grains that were planted under the quarter moon.	The wisteria is a type of hanging vine covered with flowers. By the light of the quarter moon, the flowers look like clusters of rice grains.	JH	1	トウ、ドウ	ふじ	藤 (ふじ)
1296	facsimile	Đằng	謄	mimeograph, facsimile, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, say, words, keitai, mouth	17	32	Moon . . . quarter . . . words.		Sending a facsimile to the moon can be problematic only a quarter of the words actually get there.	"As a prank, a guy sits with his butt flesh on the facsimile machine, inserts a quarter, and tries to fax it to his boss. However the facsimile machine has pattern recognition technology and instead of an image of his flesh, it just transmits the word ""asshole"". Don´t forget it´s flesh, not words, on the left side; the flesh image gets transformed into words."	JH	1	トウ		
1297	one-sided	Phiến	片	one-sided, waiter with wine on tray	4	32	This kanji is based on the pictograph of a tree with some branches going upwards and others hanging down, split right down the middle. When that picture's right side is isolated, it becomes the kanji for one-sided, in the sense of only one part of a whole.		Fuaburisu´s pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife is a one-sided version of the story. Others say he was giving her the finger.	Taking the keyword in the sense of only one part of a whole, I see this as a pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife (I couldn´t see any trees or branches in there).	6	2	ヘン	かた-、かた	片 (かた)
1298	printing block	Phản	版	printing block, one-sided, waiter with wine on tray, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	8	32	"Although this character also carries the sense of an ""edition"" of a publication, the elements, one-sided and anti-, more readily suggest its other meaning of a printing block."		Before the advent of printers in Japan, typewriters couldn´t be built as they were in the west due to how many kanji there are. Lots of small printing blocks had to be used instead. One side of the printing block would have a mirrored (anti) image of the kanji. This is true.	Nazi propaganda. Picture the printing blocks producing very one-sided (Aryan), anti-Jewish propaganda spreading posters to hang around town.	5	2	ハン		
1299	of	Chi	之	of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag	3	32	This character is now used chiefly in proper names, and is best learned as the character closest to the hiragana え, though in fact it has no relation to it.	* In order to give this kanji a more concrete meaning when it is used as a primitive element, think of it as referring to building blocks with the hiragana written on them, much the same as the A-B-C blocks you played with as a child.	Of all the kanji, this is the only one 之orro can write.	The Z of Zorro (and yes he has a hat).	Names	1	シ	の、これ、おいて、ゆく、この	
1300	destitution	Phạp	乏	destitution, drop, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag	4	32	Drop of . . . building blocks.		Just one drop (of alcohol) and he starts walking in zig-zags – no wonder Zorro´s living in destitution. (Note: As a primitive let 之 be Zorro or Zig-Zag: it´s pictographic).	Children in complete destitution have no hope of ever getting toys to play with, so when they find even a tiny drop of a building block they are overjoyed.	JH	1	ボウ	とぼ.しい、とも.しい	乏しい (とぼ.しい)
1301	turf	Chi (cỏ)	芝	turf, flowers, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag	6	32	Flowers . . . building blocks.		Artificial turf made easy: flowers stuck on top of building blocks that you can place anywhere.	"Zorro, with a flower between his teeth for the ladies, defends his turf against evildoers. ""This is my turf! And this...is for the lady.""."	JH	1	シ	しば	芝 (しば)
1302	negative	Bất	不	negative, one, ceiling, person, drop	4	32	You may play with the primitives of this kanji as you wish (ceiling . . . person . . . a drop of), but you will probably find that its simplicity, and its frequency, make it easy to remember just as it is.		"[Smithsonian] Scene: Mr. T hanging from the ceiling being tortured. He is asked if he is going to talk. Spitting (a drop of saliva) in the torturer´s face, he says ""Negative""."	One below zero is a negative number.	4	4	フ、ブ		不当 (ふとう), 不利 (ふり), 不賛成 (ふさんせい)
1303	negate	Phủ	否	negate, negative, mouth	7	32	Negative . . . mouth.		To distinguish between 否 negate, and 不 negative (#1217): Note that negate contains 口, which is a kind of gate.	Negative mouths negate everything.	6	3	ヒ	いな、いや	否 (いな)
1304	cupfuls	Bôi	杯	cupfuls, tree, wood, negative	8	32	Tree . . . negative.		The maple tree is very negative about it, but the farmer still collects cupfuls of maple syrup from it.	A few cupfuls of sake can create a very negative situation. Like smashing into that tree...　　RTK2:　ハイ　一杯　いっぱい(one cupful).	JH	3	ハイ	さかずき	杯 (さかずき)
1305	dart	Thỉ	矢	dart, drop, heavens	5	33	"When shot high into the heavens, the dart gets so small it looks like a mere drop. Although this character could as well mean ""arrow,"" it has no connection with the primitive of that meaning. Hence the new key word."		Zeus ran out of lightning bolts and has to drop darts from the heavens.	Do not mistake with LOSE 失.	2	1	シ	や	矢 (や)
1306	rectify	Kiểu	矯	rectify, dart, drop, heavens, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2	17	33	Dart . . . angel. Compare your stories for correct (Frame 405), revise (Frame 362), and reformation (Frame 567).		Angels have now been given a powerful tool to rectify human behavior instantly, without delay - they have been allowed to drop darts on those who misbehave... spare the dart and spoil the man...	The darts of the angel Cupid are supposed to bring people joy, but usually just make things a lot worse. Here we see another angel flying around shooting people with the anti-darts (antidote), to rectify the situation.	JH	1	キョウ	た.める	矯める (た.める)
1307	tribe	Tộc	族	tribe, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, dart, drop, heavens	11	33	Banner . . . dart.		"With a banner declaring ""Keep Out!"" and blow darts to back it up, the Amazon tribe is not that friendly."	Once tribes shot darts under their war banners, now they are putting banner ads on the internet for betting on dart-games at their casinos :(.	3	4	ゾク		
1308	know	Tri	知	know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth	8	33	Dart . . . mouth.		I should know. After all, I did graduate from Dartmouth!	[know; wisdom] [An arrow 矢 like mouth 口] If you know the answers, they will fly like darts from your mouth.	2	4	チ	し.る、し.らせる	知 (しる)
1309	wisdom	Trí	智	wisdom, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth, sun, day, tongue wagging	12	33	Know . . . sun.		Wisdom is knowing everything OVER the sun (fools assume everything UNDER).	Knowing more each day, brings wisdom.	Names	1	チ		
1311	halberd	Mâu (cái giáo, mâu thuẫn)	矛	halberd, beforehand	5	33	The halberd's battle-ax head and long shaft are depicted here. Take care with the number and order of the strokes.		マオ Zedong always carried a halberd.	Make the halberd a heroic warrior (perhaps of scandinavian origin) who weilds this polearm - the most effective, brutal and vicious one - with great skill. He can use it to hook, pierce and chop (the three strokes).	JH	1	ム、ボウ	ほこ	矛 (ほこ)
1312	tender	Nhu	柔	tender, halberd, beforehand, tree, wood	9	33	Halberd . . . tree.		[tender; weakness; gentleness; softness] Love me tender, Love me perfect, Never cheat on me. Or I´ll impale you on my Halberd, And hang ya atop a tree...	Use a halberd to tenderize a tree: halberds can chop, poke, and slash, so it´s all good!	JH	2	ジュウ、ニュウ	やわ.らか、やわ.らかい、やわ、やわ.ら	柔軟 (じゅうなん), 柔道 (じゅうどう), 懐柔 (かいじゅう), 柔らか (やわ.らか), 柔らかい (やわ.らかい)
1313	task	Vụ	務	task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold	11	33	Halberd . . . taskmaster . . . muscle.		It is with the halberd he holds that the taskmaster exerts his power over those actually performing the task.	"So many video games have a ""boss"" stage you must pass in order to advance to the next level. Here, your task is to use your halberd to beat the taskmaster with the huge, bulging muscles."	5	3	ム	つと.める	務める (つと.める)
1314	fog	Vụ	霧	fog, rain, weather, task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold	19	33	Weather/rain . . . task.		This fog is the perfect weather for us to perform our task undetected.	FOG is easy to associate with the RAIN primitive. So think of FOG as a type of RAIN that is slow at the TASK of getting the place wet.	JH	1	ム、ボウ、ブ	きり	霧 (きり)
1315	squad	Ban	班	squad, sword, spear, cutlass, king, jewel, ball, king2, jewel2, ball2	10	33	Spear . . . two balls.		"Am I the only one who took this as penis and balls? In order to be in the man-squad, naturally you need to have two balls with your ""spear"" in the middle there."	Here we have two kings trying out for the cheer-leading squad. A spear on the floor separates their dancing areas.	6	1	ハン		
1316	homecoming	Quy	帰	homecoming, sword, spear, cutlass, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel	10	33	Spear . . . broom . . . apron. The character for lady (Frame 1234) shares the same right side as this character, which does not bode for a very happy homecoming.		A female warrior returns home from battle. Her husband takes away her spear to symbolize the end of fighting and gives her a broom and an apron. “Boy, this is some kind of HOMECOMING,” thinks the veteran. (Adapted from johnskb).	Well, the boss man warrior upon his homecoming has set aside his spear. Remember the lady (#1151) (who put aside her broom and apron)? I wonder what they´re doing now?	2	4	キ	かえ.る、かえ.す、おく.る、とつ.ぐ	帰す (かえ.す), 帰る (かえ.る)
1317	bow	Cung	弓	bow	3	33	This character pictures the bent wooden bow. Later we will learn how to make the bowstring that goes with it (Frame 1490). If you stretch this character out and see the indentation on the left as its handle, the pictography should be clearer.		My personification for this primative is Legolas from the Lord of the Rings: a master at the bow. I suppose robin hood etc would work too.	I have a BOW made from a SNAKE that I BOUND UP. He sure wasn´t happy!	2	1	キュウ	ゆみ	弓 (ゆみ)
1318	pull	Dân	引	pull, bow, stick	4	33	Bow . . . walking stick.		Put a walking stick in the bow and pull it back, ready to fire at the geezer.	This is actually a bow and an arrow. (Real origin of this kanji). Pull and release to fire!	2	3	イン	ひ.く、ひ.き、ひ.き-、-び.き、ひ.ける	引く (ひ.く), 引ける (ひ.ける)
1319	condolences	Điếu	弔	condolences, bow, walking stick	4	33	A bow . . . wrapped around a walking stick.		Perhaps a pictograph of a soldier´s weapons--his sword and bow-placed ceremonially over his body before burial, while people offer their condolences.	Send your condolences to the old geezer whom you shot the walking stick into with your bow. (see pull (#1232)).	JH	1	チョウ	とむら.う、とぶら.う	弔う (とむら.う)
1320	Vast	Hoằng	弘	vast, bow, elbow	5	33	Bow . . . elbow.		If you pull the bow back with your elbow, you can shoot a vast distance.	The valley was so vast that if you yelled elbow! you could hear it echo bow, bow, bow.	Names	1	コウ、グ	ひろ.い	
1321	strong	Cường	強	strong, bow, elbow, insect	11	33	Vast . . . insect. Note how the elbow of vast is shrunken and elevated to make room for the insect beneath.		An insect who can fly vast distances is strong.	Legolas is so strong that he can even shoot down vast numbers of tiny insects at vast distances with ease.	2	4	キョウ、ゴウ	つよ.い、つよ.まる、つよ.める、し.いる、こわ.い	強弱 (きょうじゃく), 強要 (きょうよう), 勉強 (べんきょう), 強いる (し.いる), 強い (つよ.い), 強まる (つよ.まる), 強める (つよ.める)
1323	weak	Nhược	弱	weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2	10	33	Two bows . . with ice on them.		Two weak archers agree on a duel to the death. They constantly shoot at each other but never manage to hit their target. But what they lack in skill they make up in determination, and they keep shooting for hours, and days, and months, until it´s wintertime and their bows are coated in ice.	BOWS with ICE on them are brittle and WEAK.	2	2	ジャク	よわ.い、よわ.る、よわ.まる、よわ.める	弱い (よわ.い), 弱まる (よわ.まる), 弱める (よわ.める), 弱る (よわ.る)
1325	seethe	Phí, phất (sôi sục)	沸	seethe, water, water droplets, water pistol, dollar, bow, stick, stick2	8	33	Water . . . dollar sign.		Re CharleyGarrett: This liquid looks like ordinary water, but it will instantly seethe when it comes in contact with counterfeit dollar bills. The inventor must be rich (and probably has dollar signs in his eyes).	When his daughter used a lot of water for her shower, the father could practically see the dollar signs, so he was seething with anger.	JH	2	フツ	わ.く、わ.かす	沸かす (わ.かす), 沸く (わ.く)
1326	expense	Phí	費	expense, dollar, bow, stick, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, stick2	12	33	Dollar sign . . . shells/money.		An expense is an expense, whether you put it in dollars or in local money.	A dollar sign next to an amount of money denotes an expense.	4	3	ヒ	つい.やす、つい.える	費える (つい.える), 費やす (つい.やす)
1327	No.	Đệ	第	no., bamboo, dollar, bow, stick	11	33	"The key word No. is the abbreviation for ""number."" Its elements: bamboo . . . dollar sign."		The No. 1 currency in the world is the dollar. But, the Asian nations are fast catching up and may in reality have already surpassed it. So, let the bamboo represent the No. 2 currencies (the yen, etc.). The reverse order (bamboo on top and the dollar on the bottom) is really a look at the future.	Bamboo bling is the newest Asian Rapper, No. 1 on the charts right now.	3	1	ダイ、テイ		
1328	younger brother	Đệ	弟	younger brother, horns, dollar, bow, stick	7	33	Horns . . . dollar sign.		Younger brothers are always more prone to mischief. Mine, you can almost see the little horns on him and the dollar signs on his eyes when he comes up with a money-making scheme.	The younger brother was a horny dollar -chasing bastard.	2	4	テイ、ダイ、デ	おとうと	弟妹 (ていまい), 義弟 (ぎてい), 子弟 (してい), 兄弟 (きょうだい), 弟 (おとうと)
1329	adroit	Xảo	巧	adroit, craft, snare	5	33	Craft . . . snare.		Adroit: dextrous, deft, skillful. Snare is a little generic so I´ll use BEAR TRAP, with huge teeth cartoon style that snares you around the ankle. In the crafting of a bear trap, one must be particularly adroit. Otherwise they will become the victim of their down device.	To be adroit one must have mastered the crafting of snares.	JH	1	コウ	たく.み、たく.む、うま.い	巧み (たく.み)
1330	nickname	Hiệu	号	nickname, mouth, snare	5	33	Mouth . . . snare.		"My nickname is ""No Lips"". Yep, I shouldn´t have put my mouth on that bear trap..."	When certain nickname snares to people´s mouths, they will call you that way forever.	3	3	ゴウ	さけ.ぶ、よびな	
1331	decay	Hủ (bất hủ)	朽	decay, tree, wood, snare	6	33	Tree . . . snare. Do not confuse with rot (Frame 1099).		This snare isn´t terribly effective, because it´s swinging from a decaying tree. Imagine the tree as being so decayed that when an animal gets caught in the snare, its struggles cause the tree to collapse into a putrid mess.	枯 wither The decay of an animal in the TREE was from something caught in a SNARE.	JH	1	キュウ	く.ちる	朽ちる (く.ちる)
1332	boast	Khoa	誇	boast, say, words, keitai, mouth, Batman, large, St. Bernard, chandelier, one, ceiling, snare	13	33	Words . . . St. Bernard dog . . . ceiling . . . snare.		"The hunter´s boast: I say, it was a ""big one"", but the snare broke and it got away. (credit to many others before)."	"A dog owner boasts about how obedient, not how smart, his Saint Bernard dog is. ""Why, my dog will even walk right into a trap if I tell him to. Watch!"" With a single word, ""go!"", his dog obediently runs into a snare trap hanging from the ceiling. In a flash, the dog is netted tightly and swinging from the ceiling. Don´t forget the ceiling!"	JH	1	コ	ほこ.る	誇る (ほこ.る)
1334	dirty	Ô	汚	dirty, water, water droplets, water pistol, snare, one, spike, stick	6	33	Water . . . two . . . snare. Note that the first two strokes for snare doubles up with the first stroke for two.		A hunter Washes, with WATER, his TWO SNAREs, because they are dirty.	Washing your dirty snare in water, the extra line represents the water level as you submerge the snare.	JH	2	オ	けが.す、けが.れる、けが.らわしい、よご.す、よご.れる、きたな.い	汚い (きたな.い), 汚す (けが.す), 汚らわしい (けが.らわしい), 汚れる (けが.れる), 汚す (よご.す), 汚れる (よご.れる)
1335	bestow, ban cho	Dự	与	bestow, slingshot, catapult, one	3	33	Slingshot . . . one. Later we shall learn the character for give (Frame 2046), but even so, it is a good idea already at this point to distinguish this key word from impart (Frame 795) and grant (Frame 1131).		David went to battle with a slingshot and it only took him one shot to slay Goliath. Partly because of this, the prophet Nathan was later instructed to bestow upon David the throne of all Israel.	In The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, one of the first weapons bestowed on Link was the slingshot.	JH	3	ヨ	あた.える、あずか.る、くみ.する、ともに	与える (あた.える)
1336	copy	Tả	写	copy, crown, bestow, slingshot, catapult, one	5	33	Crown . . . bestow.		A crown was bestowed to the British royalty museum, but it was only a copy.	True fact: in the UK the right to print a copy of the KJV Bible is bestowed by the crown -- there are only a few authorised bible printers. (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_James_Bible#Copyright_status).	3	4	シャ、ジャ	うつ.す、うつ.る、うつ-、うつ.し	写す (うつ.す), 写る (うつ.る)
1337	somebody	Thân	身	somebody, nose	7	34	The key word somebody was chosen to convey the double meaning of this kanji: body and person. Its composition is based on the nose (which, you will recall, is also the kanji for oneself). The extension of the bottom and far right strokes of that element, together with the unusual diagonal stroke, forms the pictograph of somebody with a prominent paunch.		Somebody was just looking for you. He had a longnose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. (greenapple,16-3-2006) The way to remember that this is somebody rather than someone (#1256) is that the story is full of body descriptions.	Somebody was just looking for you. He had a long nose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face.	3		シン	み	身 (み)
1338	shoot	Xạ	射	shoot, somebody, nose, glue	10	34	"""I shot an arrow into the air, And it landed I know not where"" goes the poem. (The poor poet obviously loses a lot of arrows.) This kanji, however, tells us where it did land. Its elements: somebody . . . glued to."		You SHOOT SOMEBODY with a GLUE-gun.	The aim of shooting is to end up with a bullet stuck in someone´s body.	6	1	シャ	い.る、さ.す	射る (い.る)
1339	apologize	Tạ	謝	apologize, say, words, keitai, mouth, shoot bang bang, somebody, nose, glue	17	34	Words . . . shoot.		Dick Cheney...	"The famous speech by the man that Dick Cheney shot in the face: ""I´m sorry for the trouble I have caused the Vice President""."	5	1	シャ	あやま.る	謝る (あやま.る)
1340	old man	Lão	老	old man, old man, soil, dirt, ground, spoon, sitting on the ground	6	34	"First, do not confuse this character with venerable old man (Frame 849), which is far more rarely used. The character for an old man begins with an abbreviation of the character for somebody, the nose having been shortened into a simple crisscross of lines. But there is another, simpler way to remember it all: the soil drawn first indicates that one has come close to the age when ""dust to dust"" begins to take on a personal meaning; the diagonal walking stick for getting around; and the spoon for being spoon-fed."	* As a primitive, the meaning is the same, but the final two strokes are omitted so that they can be replaced with other elements.	An old man, wondering what it´s like in a grave, sits in a freshly dug plot. When a gravekeeper mistakes him for dead and begins burying him with soil, the old man saves himself by flailing his walking stick in the air.	Old man sits in the dirt, having a stroke.	4	3	ロウ	お.いる、ふ.ける	老いる (お.いる), 老ける (ふ.ける)
1341	consider	Khảo	考	consider, old man, slingshot, catapult	6	34	Old man . . . slingshot. Remember: you already have kanji for discriminating (Frame 521), deliberation (Frame 692), and think (Frame 651).		Before shooting an old man with a slingshot, one shold carefully consider the possible consequences.	Even though he had the old man Mr. Wilson within the sights of his slingshot, Dennis the Menace considered what he was doing and stopped.	2	4	コウ	かんが.える、かんが.え	考える (かんが.える)
1342	filial piety	Hiếu	孝	filial piety, old man, child	7	34	Old man . . . child.		This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders.	+dilandau23: This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. There is a picture of a statue depicting this here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_piety.	6		コウ、キョウ		
1343	teach	Giáo	教	teach, filial piety, old man, child, taskmaster	11	34	Filial piety . . . taskmaster.		In early Japan, filial piety was the cornerstone of education, and harsh taskmasters were employed to teach it.	"You could say that the taskmistress is teaching you filial piety when she whips you and asks, ""Who´s your daddy?!""."	2	4	キョウ	おし.える、おそ.わる	教える (おし.える), 教わる (おそ.わる)
1344	torture	Khảo (tra khảo, tra tấn)	拷	torture, finger, fingers, consider, old man, slingshot, catapult	9	34	Fingers . . . consider.		In Torture 101 class they teach you to Consider the Fingers as the first part to inflict pain to. Then you can move on to other parts (like feet, groin, head, etc. etc. ; ) ).	"Aaaargh, stop! cries the victim of torture, his fingers being squeezed by the thumb screws. ""I´ll consider it,"" the torturer says coolly, ""if you tell me the names of all the agents in your organization.""."	JH	1	ゴウ		
1345	someone	Giả (học giả, độc giả)	者	someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	8	34	"Old man . . . sun. This key word looks to be difficult because of its proximity to somebody. In fact, it is a very common kanji that will cause you no difficulty at all. Its meaning should be seen as the human referent for the abstract noun ""something."""	* As a primitive it means a puppet-on-a-string.	I find the best way of memorizing this kanji is in conjunction with the Japanese compound for ninja: 忍者 -- i.e. someone who endures (see FRAME 597 for the kanji 忍). A 忍者 is not just a 身 (somebody), it´s 者 who can 忍 great 拷!	Back in the day, the old man used to be someone. His name was in the papers and all that. I use CHUCKY from the movie Child´s Play as my major alternate meaning for this primitive.	3	4	シャ	もの	者 (もの)
1346	boil	Chử	煮	boil, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, oven-fire, barbecue	12	34	Puppet . . . oven fire.		"I had a hard time with the next several frame numbers trying to use ""puppet."" So i thought of ""voodoo doll"" but then found ""love doll"" (which is just a special type of puppet) fit well with these 8 frames. Observe: Here I am boiling my love doll over the flames to warm her up a bit..."	There is a lesser known voodoo practice of boiling a puppet over an oven fire, to really make your victim feel the heat!	JH	1	シャ	に.る、-に、に.える、に.やす	煮える (に.える), 煮やす (に.やす), 煮る (に.る)
1347	renowned	Trước	著	renowned, flowers, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	11	34	Flowers . . . puppet.		Here I am, putting a wreath of flowers on my love doll´s head and pretending she is someone of great renowned.	This someone is so renowned they are covered with flowers every time they perform on stage.	6	2	チョ、チャク	あらわ.す、いちじる.しい	著す (あらわ.す), 著しい (いちじる.しい)
1349	signature	Thự	署	signature, eye, cross-eyed, net, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	13	34	Eye . . . puppet.		Before giving your SIGNATURE to accept the LOVEDOLL, you should EYE over the LOVEDOLL for any damages, then give your SIGNATURE.	The ninja´s signature move was to paralyse people just by looking in their eyes.	6	2	ショ		
1350	sultry	Thử	暑	sultry, sun, day, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun2, day2	12	34	The key word refers to the heat of summer. Its elements: sun . . . puppet.		Ahh, a fine sultry day with my love doll under the hot sun. I think she´s getting a tan!	"[from decamer0n] This is the kanji for atsui (暑い) as in hot. If you´ve ever been in Japan in the summer no doubt you have heard hoards of people bellowing ""Atsui! Atsui!"" Here you are laying with your love doll under the hot sun. Luckily the manufacturers were smart and when the doll got to hot it would bellow ""Atsui! It´s so sultry!""."	3	1	ショ	あつ.い	暑い (あつ.い)
1351	various	Chư	諸	various, say, words, keitai, mouth, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	15	34	Words . . . puppet. Do not confuse with miscellaneous (Frame 604).		Because i get tired of saying the same old thing, I have lately been trying to use various terms of endearment to my love doll. I think she appreciates it too.	"When you pull the string at the back of Chucky, he will say various things. ""Hidey-ho! Ha ha ha!"" ""Hi, I´m Chucky. Wanna play?"" ""I´m going to eat your liver, bitch!""."	6	2	ショ	もろ	
1352	boar	Chư, trư	猪	boar, pack of wild dogs, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	11	34	Pack of wild dogs . . . puppet.		My love doll is made of special pheremone impregnated vinyl. Unfortunately, a pack of wild dogs mistook her for a wild boar and tore her to pieces. Oh dear!	(Image: a pack of wild dogs chasing Pinocchio who´s trying to escape by riding on the back of a boar. See him bouncing around as they race along?).	Names	1	チョ	い、いのしし	
1353	strand	Chử (cồn nhỏ, bờ biển)	渚	strand, water, water droplets, water pistol, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	11	34	The strand referred to here is the stretch of land along a beach or shoreline. Its elements are: water . . . puppet.		I was stranded on a desert island surrounded by water for hundreds of miles on end. I wasn´t upset though - I had my love doll! What a great strand of sand to be stranded on - just me and my love doll!	A lovely romantic walk on the strand, splashing in the water with my love doll.	Names	1	ショ	なぎさ	
1354	gamble	Đố	賭	gamble, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	15	34	Shells/money . . . puppet.		When we gamble at the shell game, I always win against my love doll.	People who gamble compulsively are like puppets controlled by money.	JH		ト	か.ける、かけ	賭ける (か.ける)
1355	gorge	Hạp (hẻm núi)	峡	gorge, mountain, scissors, husband, horns	9	34	Mountain . . . scissors.		A gorge is where God has cut into a mountain with a pair of scissors. (synewave,6-10-2006) http://www.travelblog.org/Photos/197361.html.	A kid cuts a gorge into a paper mountain, with a pair of scissors.	JH	1	キョウ、コウ	はざま	
1356	cramped	Hiệp (hẹp)	狭	cramped, pack of wild dogs, scissors, husband, horns	9	34	Pack of wild dogs . . . scissors.		A pack of wild dogs, waiting in a very cramped waiting room, to get their hair cut by Edward Scissors Hands, who is very popular.	In a CRAMPED space, a brave man holds off PACK OF WILD DOGS with only a pair of SCISSORS.	JH	1	キョウ、コウ	せま.い、せば.める、せば.まる、さ	狭まる (せば.まる), 狭める (せば.める), 狭い (せま.い)
1357	sandwiched	Hiệp, tiệp	挟	sandwiched, finger, fingers, scissors, husband, horns	9	34	Fingers . . . scissors. Do not confuse with the kanji for pinch (Frame 709).		挟まる 【はさまる】 (v5r,vi) to get between; to be caught in; (P) Story: You know how in tokyo there are those really packed trains where train staff in gloves shove people in? Well imagine being sandwiched in so tight, that when the doors close, only your FINGERS are sticking out. The train staff have no choice... they must cut them off with SCISSORS =( snip snip..	Fingers sandwiched between a pair of scissors. Don´t move or else!	JH	2	キョウ、ショウ	はさ.む、はさ.まる、わきばさ.む、さしはさ.む	挟まる (はさ.まる), 挟む (はさ.む)
1359	chase	Truy	追	chase, maestro, road	9	34	Maestro . . . road.		Maestro, coattails flapping wildly, is being chased down the road by his fans.	Maestro primative = James Bond. Here he gives chase down the road to the bad guys. I´m thinking of the car chase in ´The Man with the Golden Gun´ - NOT pursue (#539). I think about ´Race N Chase´ (a scalextric type toy)...there were no pigs in ´Race N Chase´, only cars.	3	3	ツイ	お.う	追う (お.う)
1361	expert	Sư	師	expert, maestro, noren, one, ceiling, towel	10	34	Maestro . . . ceiling . . . towel.		A maestro in a large auditorium with high ceilings is conducting his orchestra of expert musicians at a fever-pitch, sweat pouring out of him. When the piece is over he reaches for his towel to wipe his brow.	Maestro is such as expert, he can conduct even with a towel hanging from the ceiling in front of him.	5	3	シ、ス	もろもろ、なら.う	
1362	commander	Suý, soái	帥	commander, maestro, towel	9	34	Maestro . . . towel.		The COMMANDER is a military MAESTRO who never throws in the TOWEL.	The greatest of them all; Commander James Bond, 007. Here he is the maestro of undressing women, removing the towel from some bond girl. Of course the towel symbolises her last vestige of resistance.	JH	1	スイ		
1363	bureaucrat	Quan	官	bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton	8	34	By replacing the maestro's baton (the drop) with the roof of a house, we have his equivalent in the institutional world of big government: the bureaucrat.		No one likes classical music anymore. Our Maestro is here at home without his baton sighing sadly before he heads off for another day as his new job as a bureaucrat.	Bureaucrat, def: The maestro without a baton, the one who orchestrates oppressive rules, regulations and taxes on every household.	4	3	カン		
1364	coffin	Quan	棺	coffin, tree, wood, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton	12	34	Wood . . . bureaucrat.		An excellent use of wood is to make coffins for bureaucrats.	The maestro at home was sick of being a bureaucrat, so he got some wood and built himself a coffin and got in.	JH	1	カン		
1365	pipe	Quản	管	pipe, bamboo, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton	14	34	Bamboo . . . bureaucrat.		Japanese bureaucrats send all their messages through an inter-office bamboo pipe system.	The Japanese internet is a series of bamboo pipes said one ignorant bureaucrat trying to draft Internet legislation.	4	2	カン	くだ	管 (くだ)
1366	father	Phụ	父	father	4	34	The kindness and hard work of the ideal father is seen in this abbreviation of the taskmaster that leaves off his rod or whip (the first stroke) and replaces it with the sweat of the father's brow (the two drops at the top).		Luke, I am your father. Darth Vader (really surprised nobody put this one up before: 2 laserswords).	Not to confuse anyone, but I think if you put your mind to it, you can see the image of a father here. The first two strokes take on the form of his eye brows, and the third and fourth stroke make up the nose and mustache.	2	5	フ	ちち	父 (ちち)
1368	mingle	Giao	交	mingle, top hat, father	6	34	Top hat . . . father.		Even though your FATHER is an old man, he can´t give up his party lifestyle. Once a week he still dons his cool TOP HAT (well, it was cool 40 years ago) and goes out on the town to MINGLE with the ladies. This is a pretty common thing in Japan, where old motherfuckers still think they can pick up 19 year old girls.	Darth Vader tries to mingle with his troops. He even weares one of the helmets of the stromtroopers. (one of them laughs: white helmet, black suit. Darth Vader thereby slashes him in 2).	2	3	コウ	まじ.わる、まじ.える、ま.じる、まじ.る、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、-か.う、か.わす、かわ.す、こもごも	交う (か.う), 交わす (か.わす), 交ざる (ま.ざる), 交じる (ま.じる), 交ぜる (ま.ぜる), 交える (まじ.える), 交わる (まじ.わる)
1369	merit	Hiệu (công hiệu)	効	merit, mingle, top hat, father, power, muscle, arnold	8	34	Mingle . . . power. Note the distinct connotations that separate merit from achievement (Frame 927).		Mingling with the powerful can bring you success, bypassing the need for any merit.	There is great merit in mingling with the powerful.	5	2	コウ	き.く、ききめ、なら.う	効く (き.く)
1370	contrast	Giác, hiệu	較	contrast, car, mingle, top hat, father	13	34	Cars . . . mingle.		The people I had invited to the party were mingling quite well with one another, until they all suddenly started talking about the cars they own. Pretty soon the crowd divided itself into distinct, contrasting crowds: rich snobs with fancy cars, soccer moms with minivans, and hippies with bicycles.	Our world of today, cars mingling on busy streets, is in stark contrast to the one of yesteryear, where it was people who would mingle on the streets.	JH	1	カク、コウ	くら.べる	
1371	exam	Hiệu, giáo	校	exam, tree, wood, mingle, top hat, father	10	34	Tree . . . mingle.		With the exam scores posted on a TREE, the students MINGLED around looking at the results. test. 試.	Note: this Kanji does not mean exam. It means school. I find this keyword an choice odd as school by itself is not used elsewhere. Examples: 校長 is principal (lit. school chief); 中学校 is junior high school (lit. middle study/knowledge school).	1	5	コウ、キョウ		
1372	leg	Túc	足	leg, mouth, mending, mend	7	34	Mouth . . . mending. Note that the last stroke of mouth and the first of mending overlap.	* As a primitive on the left, it is amended to something similar to correct in place of mending. Its meaning remains leg, but should be thought of as a wooden leg in order to avoid confusion with other similar elements, namely human legs, animal legs, and walking legs.	Captain Ahab lost his leg to the great white whale´s mouth and had to mend it with a peg leg.	I´ll use my mouth to mend your leg, I´ll kiss it all better :).	1	4	ソク	あし、た.りる、た.る、た.す	足 (あし), 足す (た.す), 足りる (た.りる), 足る (た.る)
1373	stimulate	Xúc (xúc tiến)	促	stimulate, person, leg, mouth, mending, mend	9	34	Person . . . leg.		Mr T, ever the optimist, is trying to stimulate Capt Ahab´s wooden leg by rubbing it down. Capt Ahab normally wouldn´t let anyone do that, but he appreciates Mr T´s stimulating conversation.	You stimulate a person by giving him a kick.	JH	1	ソク	うなが.す	促す (うなが.す)
1375	long-distance	Cự	距	long-distance, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, giant	12	34	Wooden leg . . . gigantic.		You can step a long-distance if you have a leg that´s gigantic!	You can step a long-distance if you have gigantic wooden legs (stilts).	JH	1	キョ	へだ.たる、けづめ	
1376	path	Lộ	路	path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2	13	34	Wooden leg . . . each.		When pirates try to hide, it´s always easy to find them. Their wooden legs leave distinctive prints, showing where each is hiding and the exact path he took.	I have a wooden leg for each type of path. One with a rubber stopper at the end for absorbing shocks on paved paths, and one with a wide foot to distribute weight better on mud paths.	3	3	ロ、ル	-じ、 みち	路 (じ)
1377	dew	Lộ	露	dew, rain, weather, path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2	21	34	Rain . . . path.		After the rain the path was covered with dew.	Dew forms on the path least weathered.	JH	1	ロ、ロウ	つゆ	露出 (ろしゅつ), 露店 (ろてん), 雨露 (あめつゆ), 露 (つゆ)
1378	hop	Khiêu (vũ)	跳	hop, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, portent, omen	13	34	Wooden leg . . . portent.		A girl with a wooden leg always wanted to play hopscotch with the other girls, but every time she tried to hop she´d lose her balance and injure another girl. That´s why the other girls make fun of her and see her presence as a portent to injury.	A turtle with a wooden leg needs to hop to get around.	JH	1	チョウ	は.ねる、と.ぶ、-と.び	跳ぶ (と.ぶ), 跳ねる (は.ねる)
1379	leap	Dũng	躍	leap, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, futon, feathers, wings, turkey	21	34	Wooden leg . . . feathers . . . turkey.		Well, there are weekdays weekday (#576) and there are laundry days laundry (#577), and on February 29th leap day, the manufacturer recommends servicing or replacing your peg leg because they tend to wear out every 4 years.	[Story for people following katsuo in making feathers+turkey a ´futon´ primitive] If you´re going to leap from a high place, better hope there´s a futon below -- otherwise you´re going to break your leg at the very least...	JH	1	ヤク	おど.る	躍る (おど.る)
1380	tread	Tiên (thực tiễn)	践	tread, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, parade float	13	34	Wooden leg . . . parade float.		The pirate with the wooden leg chased after the parade float and was run over by the next one, leaving tread marks all over him and his leg.	Pirates must tread carefully when walking on parade floats, so as not to break through the weak plaster with their wooden legs.	JH	1	セン	ふ.む	
1381	step	Đạp	踏	step, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, wednesday, boots, water, sun, day	15	34	The meaning of this character is virtually identical with that of the last frame. Be sure to come up with distinct connotations suggested by phrases in which each is commonly used. Wooden leg . . . water . . . sun.		You have to watch your step when moving your leg on a watery day.	"So, we´ve walked on the moon, but it´s going to take a pirate with a wooden leg, with a huge supply of cooling water to land on the sun and take that ""one small step for a man""."	JH	1	トウ	ふ.む、ふ.まえる	踏まえる (ふ.まえる), 踏む (ふ.む)
1383	skeleton	Cốt	骨	skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	10	34	This kanji and primitive refers to the part of the body composed of the bones and their joints. The top part of the kanji, terminating in the element for crown, is a pictograph of a bone joint. I leave it to you to put the pieces together, so to speak.		Your body meat is attached to the bone joints of your skeleton.	The top box 口 is the skull and the brain 田 has shriveled to the size of marble (but following kanji convention it is depicted as a square) and rolled into the bottom right hand corner. With all the hair and flesh gone the crown has slipped down to the shoulders like a necklace. 月 represents the rest of the body of the skeleton. [Idea for position of crown thanks to n1williams].	6	2	コツ	ほね	骨 (ほね)
1384	slippery	Hoạt	滑	slippery, water, water droplets, water pistol, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	13	34	Water . . . skeleton.		"Don´t give water to a skeleton. When he drinks it, it´ll sluice right through his bones, forcing you to put one of those ""Caution - Slippery Floor"" signs up on the resultant puddle."	Slippery surfaces are very dangerous for skeletons, since their bone feet slip easily... a few drops of water, and zweep! A large mess of bones to pick up and reassemble!	JH	1	カツ、コツ	すべ.る、なめ.らか	滑る (すべ.る), 滑らか (なめ.らか)
1385	marrow	Tuỷ	髄	marrow, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, road, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2	19	34	Skeleton . . . possess . . . road.		A skeleton is shuffling along the shoulder of the road, so you pull up next to him and ask where he is going. He says he´s going to donate his marrow to the hospital because he got into some financial trouble and lost everything; his marrow is the only thing he still possesses.	"A skeleton by the side of the road, holding a sign ""Possess marrow, will travel"". Yeah, it makes no sense but I don´t foget the kanji."	JH	1	ズイ		
1386	calamity	Hoạ	禍	calamity, altar, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth	13	34	Altar . . . jawbone.		Continued from auspicious (#1088). Once a year, the people pray for a sign from the gods. But if the gods are feeling particularly mischievous, they´ll send down a jawbone to the altar. The people see this as a sign of calamity to come. The gods think of it as an amusing prank.	Calamity Jane went to the altar to confess her sins and the priest´s jawbone fell to the floor...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　か　禍福　かふく (fortune and misfortune)...　Pure Group: 渦1292　過1293.	JH	1	カ	わざわい	
1387	whirlpool	Oa	渦	whirlpool, water, water droplets, water pistol, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth	12	34	Water . . . jawbone.		Grampa´s flushing the toilet, when his denture (Jawbone) pops out and gets sucked down the whirlpool!	A whirlpool is water opening its jaws to swallow anything whole.	JH	1	カ	うず	渦 (うず)
1389	overdo	Quá	過	overdo, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth, road	12	34	Jawbone . . . road.		Jaws XII~! Jaws strikes the highway! Man, they´re really overdoing it now.	In ´American History X´ Edward Norton´s character overdoes it when he makes the dude that tried to steal his car lie face down with his jawbone open over the pavement of the roadway and then stamps on the back of his head. My teeth still tingle when I think of that!	5	3	カ	す.ぎる、-す.ぎる、-す.ぎ、す.ごす、あやま.つ、あやま.ち、よ.ぎる	過ち (あやま.ち), 過つ (あやま.つ), 過ぎる (す.ぎる), 過ごす (す.ごす)
1390	Heights	Phản	阪	heights, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	7	35	"This character is used for proper names, much as the English word ""Heights"" is. Its primitives: pinnacle . . . anti-."		"If you´re scared of Heights, you don´t want to stay at The Pinnacle; you are anti- The Pinnacle. Primitive: The Pinnacle is a dream-like gated community at the top of a mount. This allows for innumerable stories for all the kanji with this primitive since you have a whole city to work with. Also prevents confusion with ""mountain""."	People are being displaced in 大阪 to make room for a new development, Osaka Heights, the pinnacle of modern Japanese housing. An angry mob of protestors are outside with Anti-Osaka Heights signs.	JH		ハン	さか	阪 (さか)
1391	Africa	A, Á	阿	africa, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, can, mouth, street, nail, spike	8	35	"This kanji, an abbreviation for Africa, is now used chiefly for its sound, ""a,"" not unlike the kanji for Italy and the sound ""i"" that we met earlier (Frame 1245). Its composite elements are: pinnacles . . . can."		Can you see Africa from The Pinnacle? I can! I can!	A kinda pictogram: ´BoT´, the first 3 letters in ´Botswana´ an African country.	Names	1	ア、オ	おもね.る	
1392	occasion	Tế (quốc tế,..)	際	occasion, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small	14	35	Pinnacle . . . ritual.		Many rituals are practiced every day (blessing before meals, evening prayer, etc.) Only the peak rituals (wedding, Bar Mitzvah, etc.) qualify to be called an occasion.	On occasian, rituals are held at the very tip of The Pinnacle.	5	3	サイ	きわ、-ぎわ	際 (きわ)
1393	hinder	Chướng	障	hinder, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle	14	35	Pinnacle . . . badge.		The officer at the gate to The Pinnacle with a giant badge sewn to his chest hinders all visitors. But not the handicapped. They´re hindered enough already. They´re given a badge and can pass right into The Pinnacle.	The pinnacle of racism was that of the Nazis. They made the Jews wear a badge on their clothes to identify them. They hindered their every movement. Moreover the peace-loving Dutch all wore the badges so that the Jews would be unidentifiable. Effectively hindering the Nazi plot.	6	1	ショウ	さわ.る	障る (さわ.る)
1395	follow	Tuỳ	随	follow, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road	12	35	Pinnacle . . . possess . . . road.		Follow Gandalf who possesses the road to the Pinnicle (Mount Doom) [Image: Follow the ´Yellow-Brick Road´ to success] The pinnacle signifies your personal goal and destination. What you´re seeking to possess lies at the end of the yellow-brick road. You must follow the road to get what you want.	I fled to The Pinnacle for safety, but the demon followed me right up the road!	JH	1	ズイ	まにまに、したが.う	
1396	auxiliary	Bồi	陪	obeisance, auxiliary, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth	11	35	Pinnacle . . . muzzle.		In case of emergency, The Pinnacle has auxiliary guard dogs, but they keep them muzzeled until they´re needed.	When you climb the pinnacle you´ll need to take a muzzle of auxiliary oxygen.	JH	1	バイ		
1397	sunshine	Dương	陽	sunshine, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets	12	35	"Different from the primitive for sun (which figures in the character) and the kanji for ray (Frame 125), the key word sunshine is meant to convey the meaning of the masculine principle in nature, or ""Yang."" (The dark is viewed mythically as the feminine principle; see frame 1718.) From there it comes to mean sun also. The elements are: pinnacle . . . piggy bank."		A kid is perched on a pinnacle with his piggy bank. He uses the coins to catch the sunshine, and redirect it into people´s eyes, far below.	The Pinnacle is environmentally friendly. They collect solar power through sunshine on their piggybank shaped solar arrays.	3	3	ヨウ	ひ	
1398	line up	Trần (trần thuật, bày, nhà Trần,..)	陳	exhibit, line up, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, east, tree, wood, sun, day	11	35	Pinnacle . . . east.		Every morning at The Pinnacle, the residents line upon the East side for morning stretches and leisure.	Hikers line up to get to the top of that great pinnacle of the East... Mount Fuji. Seriously, they really do! ...probably the only mountain in the world with a queue at the top.	JH	1	チン	ひ.ねる	
1399	ward off	Phòng	防	ward off, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compass, direction	7	35	Pinnacle . . . compass.		A giant compass is The Pinnacle´s self-defense system. It points in the direction of any invaders so the city is prepared well ahead to ward off the intruders.	To ward off enemies, the ancient Greece kept watch from the Acropolis, where they had a clear view in all directions.	5	2	ボウ	ふせ.ぐ	防ぐ (ふせ.ぐ)
1400	affixed	Phụ	附	affixed, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, adhere, sellotape, person, glue	8	35	Pinnacle . . . adhere.		A sign was AFFIXED on the PINNACLE of the Acropolis so that tourists would ADHERE to the rules.	The Pinnacle is firmly affixed to the top of the mount with bubble gum. (adhere (#1000)).	JH	1	フ	つ.ける、つ.く	
1401	Inst.	Viện	院	Inst., pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, perfect, house, beginnings, two, human legs	10	35	This key word, the abbreviation for Institution, represents the use of that word as a suffix affixed to certain buildings and organizations. Its primitive elements: pinnacle . . . perfect.		The Institution of The Pinnacle is perfect in every way. It is the new House of God, his chosen city.	To reach the pinnacle of kanji perfect you need to attend the Heisig Inst.	3	4	イン		
1402	camp	Trận (trận mạc, hàng trận)	陣	camp, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, car	10	35	Pinnacle . . . car.		Paparazzi make camp outside of The Pinnacle in their cars, waiting for the celebs to come out.	Note: This kanji is most often used in a military context. Story: Here we see an encampment of military vehicles laying siege to The Pinnacle. With other countries being envious of the perfect life they lead there that makes sense. Fortunately, the pinnacle knows how to ward off (#1302) enemies.	JH	1	ジン		
1403	regiment	Đội	隊	regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot	12	35	Pinnacle . . . animal horns . . . sow.		Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army is lead by a Miss Piggy with a viking helmet on.	"Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army has an animal name. This regiment is called ""Horned Pig Regiment"". They´re wearing Wiking helms and are usually cowered in mud."	4	1	タイ		
1404	crash	Truỵ (rơi, rụng)	墜	crash, regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot, soil, dirt, ground	15	35	Regiment . . . ground.		One of the members of our air force regiment has been shot down; he managed to safely eject, but his plane crashed into the ground.	The regiment led by horny Miss Piggy wearing a viking helmet accidently falls off The Pinnacle and crashes into the ground below. // old story with wrong meaning of regiment: Kermit is so frustrated with horny Miss Piggy´s regimented sex schedule, he throws her off The Pinnacle and she crashes into the ground.	JH	1	ツイ	お.ちる、お.つ	
1405	descend	Giáng, hàng (giáng trần, đầu hàng)	降	descend, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, sunglasses with one lens missing, monocle	10	35	Pinnacle . . . walking legs . . . sunglasses with a lens popped out. Distinguish from fall (Frame 320) and crash, which we considered in the previous frame.		Sunglasses-missing-one-lens is obviously the monocle. The proper, high-class way to descend The Pinnacle is wearing a monocle with your walking legs splayed to a full gentlemanly stride.	"After a cool, hip businessman angered the executives at The Pinnacle, they beat him up, popping out a lens from his sunglasses, and tossed out the window, head first, walking legs second. One executive later commented, ""It was like he was descending into Hell from Heaven!""."	6	3	コウ、ゴ	お.りる、お.ろす、ふ.る、ふ.り、くだ.る、くだ.す	降りる (お.りる), 降ろす (お.ろす), 降る (ふ.る)
1406	story	Giai (giai cấp, bực thềm)	階	storey, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	12	35	The story of this character refers to floors in a building. The elements: pinnacle . . . all.		All buildings of The Pinnacle are multi-storey. They don´t have much room, so they have to build up. It sucks when someone presses all the buttons on the elevator! You have to stop at each storey!	Some stupid kid has pushed all the buttons in the elevator. As it stops at all storeys you reach a pinnacle of impatience. Finally you reach your storey, the last one, at the pinnacle of the building.	3	2	カイ	きざはし	
1407	highness	Bệ	陛	highness, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, soil, dirt, ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	10	35	This key word indicates a title of address to royalty. Its elements: pinnacle . . . compare . . . ground.		Your highness is the pinnacle of finesse compared to all of us commoners who are but like dirt on the ground.	His Highness, the main man at the Pinnacle, often compares those who live outside the city´s walls to dirt.	6	1	ヘイ		
1408	neighboring	Lân	隣	neighbouring, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shoeshine, rice, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening	16	35	Pinnacle . . . rice . . . sunglasses.		America thinks it is the pinnacle of the world, looking down on all neighboring countries through its mirrored, aviator sunglasses.	All the neighboring communities to the Pinnacle have a major problem. The kids at the Pinnacle have a habit of throwing down rice from the city walls in all directions, so people in neighboring communities are forced to wear sunglasses all the time in order to avoid getting rice in their eyes.	JH	1	リン	とな.る、となり	隣る (とな.る), 隣 (となり)
1409	isolate	Cách	隔	isolate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike	13	35	Pinnacle . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . glass canopy . . . human legs . . . spike. You might want to compare the kanji for dissolve (Frame 1123).		"The Pinnacle, to me, is a city that makes itself out to be perfect but is filled with dirty secrets that photographers are always trying to reveal (see dissolve (#1044) The city´s councilmen have isolated all professional photographers to make sure they don´t photograph these ""dirty secrets"". (which are up to your imagination)."	The people of the pinnacle isolate themselves, dissolving any outside friendships.	JH	1	カク	へだ.てる、へだ.たる	隔たる (ひだ.たる), 隔てる (へだ.てる)
1410	conceal	Ấn	隠	conceal, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart	14	35	Pinnacle . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart. Compare the element sat the right to the kanji for calm (Frame 1230).		Move the broom with a vulture perched on top, and you´ll find the concealed entrance to the heart of The Pinnacle.	The wheat farmer´s heart is calm (#1147) about the eagle not stealing his crops because of the broom scarecrow. But he still conceals all his wheat at The Pinnacle in case anyone else trys to steal it.	JH	1	イン、オン	かく.す、かく.し、かく.れる、かか.す、よ.る	隠す (かく.す), 隠れる (かく.れる)
1411	degenerate	Đoạ	堕	degenerate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ground, soil, dirt, ground	12	35	Pinnacle . . . possess . . . ground.		"Any attempt to possess the pinnacle will degenerate into a land (""ground"") war."	A degenerate doctor at The Pinnacle is doing illegal abortions. He´s so sick he just throws the aborted fetuses onto the ground far below. And like a possess demon, he keeps some tied to his side on a belt as trophies.	JH	1	ダ	お.ちる、くず.す、くず.れる	
1412	collapse	Hãm	陥	collapse, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, straight-jacket, bound up, olden times, old days, stick, sun, day	10	35	Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . olden times.		The Pinnacle is actually bound up by supports from olden times. Eventually, they give out, and the whole thing starts to collapse.	The Pinnacle is supported by pilings which were bound up in olden times. One day when the bindings rot away, the whole thing will collapse. (tweaking dihutensoa´s story to work a little better for me).	JH	1	カン	おちい.る、おとしい.れる	陥る (おちい.る), 陥れる (おとしい.れる)
1413	hole	Huyệt	穴	hole, house, eight	5	35	House . . . eight.	* As a primitive, this kanji uses an alternate form: the primitive for eight is replaced with that for human legs.	"A black hole is a ""House of Infinity"". Infinity is of course represented by a sideways ""8"", but here we have a Japanese ""8"" instead."	Billiards anyone? House rules here state that the first person to pot the eight ball into the hole wins the game.	6	1	ケツ	あな	穴 (あな)
1414	empty	Không	空	empty, hole, house, human legs, craft	8	35	Hole . . . craft.		The craft of creating a black hole is in creating an emptiness which can attract things.	Hole-craft is the way of making empty spaces, like the sky.	1	4	クウ	そら、あ.く、あ.き、あ.ける、から、す.く、す.かす、むな.しい	空く (あ.く), 空ける (あ.ける), 空 (から), 空 (そら)
1415	withdraw	Khống (khống chế, cầm giữ)	控	withdraw, finger, fingers, empty, sky, hole, house, human legs, craft	11	35	Fingers . . . empty.		With my fingers, I punch in my bank code and withdraw some money from my account. And now it´s empty again, as usual!	"If you find yourself in a fight with a karate master with no weapons or martial art skills, just your empty fingers, you should withdraw because 空手 (karate=""empty hand"") is more powerful than 控 (=""empty fingers"")."	JH	1	コウ	ひか.える、ひか.え	控える (ひか.える)
1416	stab	Đột (đột phá, đột nhiên)	突	stab, hole, house, human legs, large, St. Bernard	8	35	Hole . . . St. Bernard dog.		When you stab something you often leave a big hole.	The police have recruited a special breed of St. Bernard that can lick the wounds of a stabbing victim. The bleeding will stop instantly, saving the victim´s life. One quirky side-effect, however, is that this treatment leaves behind a rather large hole...	JH	3	トツ、カ	つ.く	突く (つ.く)
1417	research	Cứu	究	research, hole, house, human legs, nine, baseball	7	35	Hole . . . baseball.		Most research scientists have 9 holes.....two nostrils, two ears, a mouth, and four eyes...... :-).	Scientiest are researching , and have already found nine black holes !	3	4	キュウ、ク	きわ.める	究める (きわ.める)
1418	plug up	Trất (lấp)	窒	plug up, hole, house, human legs, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground	11	35	Hole . . . climax.		Sticking a plug up your hole will lead to stronger climaxes.	Here we have a Hole and Climax to mean PLUG UP. This is so butt-f**king easy, pun intended. If you PLUG UP her Hole, she will Climax.	JH	1	チツ		
1419	stealth	Thiết (trộm cắp)	窃	stealth, hole, house, human legs, cut, seven, sword, dagger	9	35	Hole . . . cut.		"This more commonly means ""steal"", like how a thief cuts a hole to steal the jewels."	Stealth bombers cut holes through the enemy radar.	JH	1	セツ	ぬす.む、ひそ.か	
1421	depression	Oa (lún xuống, chỗ trũng, hạ thấp)	窪	depression, hole, house, human legs, water, water droplets, water pistol, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	14	35	Hole . . . water . . . ivy. The depression referred to here is a sunken place in the ground, rather than in one's spirits.		A depression is a hole in the ground. Water naturally collects there which provides moisture for vines to grow.	The depression in the ground become a trap: the hole was filled with water and covered with ivy.	Names		ワ、ア	くぼ.む、くぼ.み、くぼ.まる、くぼ	
1422	squeeze	Trá	搾	squeeze, finger, fingers, tight, hole, house, human legs, saw	13	35	Fingers . . . hole . . . saw.		You have trouble squeezing your hand through the hole so you use a saw to enlarge it.	(Thanks DrJones) You squeeze the teats of the cow with your fingers but it´s your first try and you don´t have any milk come through the holes, so you take a saw and cut the teats to make bigger holes. Poor cow, this story squeezes my heart.	JH	1	サク	しぼ.る	搾る (しぼ.る)
1423	kiln	Diêu	窯	kiln, hole, house, human legs, sheep, oven-fire, barbecue	15	35	Hole . . . sheep . . . oven fire.		Be sure to put a hole in that ceramic sheep before you put it over the fire. Otherwise, it´ll just explode in the kiln. (If you´ve never done ceramics before, it´s important that the object have a hole in it, or this really will happen.).	You put the sheep in the hole of the kiln and turn on the flames.	JH	1	ヨウ	かま	窯 (かま)
1424	hard up	Cùng (cùng cực)	窮	hard up, hole, house, human legs, somebody, nose, bow	15	35	Hole . . . somebody . . . bow.		Hard up = nothing but your body, living in a hole, with just a bow to hunt for your food.	Somebody so hard up for cash, the volunteered to explore a black hole with nothing but a bow.	JH	1	キュウ、キョウ	きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み	窮まる (きわ.まる), 窮める (きわ.める)
1425	grope	Thám (do rhasm, thám hiểm)	探	grope, finger, fingers, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood	11	35	Fingers . . . paper punch . . . tree.		"Note: ""crown+human legs"" appears 7 times in RTK. In 4 cases (nos. 323, 1327, 1328, 2920) crown is above human legs, and in the other 3 (1888, 2472, 2679) one leg passes through the crown. I call the 1st pattern ""Miss World"" (who is wearing a crown & has long human legs) and the 2nd ""garter"" (one human leg passes through the crown wearing it as a garter). Story: Miss World has climbed a tree to avoid the finger that was groping for her. (探 means ""grope for"", i.e. search)."	A pictograph of a japanese schoolgirl getting groped by perverts on the train. The fingers of course, a crown (her too short skirt) and her legs below (which to be honest are pretty thick like tree trunks).	6	3	タン	さぐ.る、さが.す	探す (さが.す), 探る (さぐ.る)
1426	deep	Thâm	深	deep, water, water droplets, water pistol, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood	11	35	Water . . . paper punch . . . tree.		"If the groper´s ""tree"" goes up the girl´s miniskirt too deep, he´ll ejaculate fluid. (Sorry it´s kinda coarse but it works.)."	Thrown in deep water, the Japanese School girl tries to reach a floating tree to save herself.	3	3	シン	ふか.い、-ぶか.い、ふか.まる、ふか.める、み-	深い (ふか.い), 深まる (ふか.まる), 深める (ふか.める)
1427	hill	Khưu	丘	hill, axe, one, floor	5	35	Since this supposedly pictographic representation of a hill looks like anything but, picture a row of axes driven into the ground up to their heads, and see if that doesn't present a more memorable image of hill - at least a riskier one sliding down!		Excalibur is the sword planted in a rock. Lesser known AXCAHILLBUR is the axe planted on top of a hill.	At Capitol Hill proposals get axed on the floor.	JH	1	キュウ	おか	丘 (おか)
1428	Point	Nhạc (núi cao)	岳	point, hill, axe, one, floor, mountain	8	35	Think of the key word as referring to proper names of mountains, but do not confuse with mountain pass (Frame 835). The elements are: hill . . . mountain.		A point is a extra little hill at the top of a mountain. We´ll call it ´Fireman´s Point´.	This actually means a high mountain. So, to cater to the keyword, it´s surely obvious (ahem) that if something gets such a fine title as Point, it must be more magnificent than the average mountain. It´s as if there was a hill on top of an average mountain, adding to its height.	JH	1	ガク	たけ	岳 (たけ)
1429	soldier	Binh	兵	soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight	7	35	Hill . . . animal legs.		Listen up soldiers! We´re going to take that hill. You are no longer men with human legs. You are voracious animals, with animal legs! Got it? Animal legs! Now take that hill!	The hill is so steep that you almost have to have animal legs to walk on it. However, the soldiers have no problem because they´ve been trained to march there.	4	2	ヘイ、ヒョウ	つわもの	兵器 (へいき), 兵隊 (へいたい), 撤兵 (てっぺい)
1430	seacoast	Tân	浜	seacoast, water, water droplets, water pistol, soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight	10	35	Water . . . soldier.		"Seacoast -> Coast Guard -> ""water soldiers"" lined up on the seacoast defending our shores."	Imagine Normandy after the strikes on the beach. The water of the entire seacoast dyed red with the blood of thousands of soldiers.	JH	1	ヒン	はま	浜 (はま)
1431	thread	Mịch	糸	thread, spiderman	6	36	Remember when your granny used to ask you to bend your arms at the elbows and hold them out so that she could use them like a rack to hold a skein of string or yarn (here thread) while she rolled it up into a little ball? Now can you see the two elbows (with the second stroke doubling up) at the top, and the character for little below?		I also went with Spiderman. However, in the cases where this primitive appears under other primitives, as opposed to on the left (I think there are ~5 times in this chapter) I´ve opted to use a similar character: Venom. This helps keep the positioning clear, especially on such characters as dainty (#1363) and accumulate (#1364).	You´ll be seeing this one a lot. Seriously.	1	2	シ	いと	糸 (いと)
1432	weave	Chức	織	weave, thread, spiderman, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta	18	36	Thread . . . kazoo.		Spiderman weaves his way through the skyline while listening to his theme song on his ipod. It is played, of course, by kazoos.	Play the kazoo magically and the thread will weave itself.	5	1	ショク、シキ	お.る、お.り、おり、-おり、-お.り	織機 (しょっき), 染織 (せんしょく), 紡織 (ぼうしょく), 織る (お.る)
1433	darning	Thiện	繕	darning, thread, spiderman, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth	18	36	Thread . . . virtuous.		After a day being virtuouos and keeping the city safe, Spiderman´s outfit is in need of some repair. Luckily, as he can shoot out threads darning is very easy for him to do.	Darning is too obscure a word for me, I prefer to just think of it as repair. And obviously, repairing someones broken cloth things is a virtuous thing to do, and you need thread to do it.	JH	1	ゼン	つくろ.う	繕う (つくろ.う)
1434	shrink	Súc	縮	shrink, thread, spiderman, inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove	17	36	Thread . . . inn.		After spending the night at an inn, spider man discovered to his dismay that his costume had shrunk in the wash, and no longer fit!	Don´t let the Inn wash your threads, they will shrink them!	6	1	シュク	ちぢ.む、ちぢ.まる、ちぢ.める、ちぢ.れる、ちぢ.らす	縮まる (ちぢ.まる), 縮む (ちぢ.む), 縮める (ちぢ.める), 縮らす (ちぢ.らす), 縮れる (ちぢ.れる)
1435	luxuriant	Phồn	繁	luxuriant, cleverness, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts, taskmaster, thread, spiderman	16	36	Cleverness . . . thread.		Important: Luxuriant does NOT mean luxurious, as the other stories indicate. Definition: abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation. When Venom realized he couldn´t beat Spider-Man in a fair fight, he showed his cleverness by spraying venom all over Spider-Man´s luxuriant garden.	Venom is covered in a luxuriant and surprisingly clever symbiotic suit, but it´s also the taskmaster for his every evil act.	JH	1	ハン	しげ.る、しげ.く	
1436	vertical	Tung	縦	vertical, thread, spiderman, accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend	16	36	Thread . . . accompany.		When Spider-man does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers accompanies him to get a good shot of the action.	True vertical can be found by hanging a plumb line - a thread accompanied by a weight.	6	1	ジュウ	たて	縦 (たて)
1438	line	Tuyến	線	line, thread, spiderman, spring, white, dove, water	15	36	Thread . . . spring.		This kanji is used for train lines. Spiderman does a hot spring tour of Japan using the train lines. You can see the Spidey costume hanging on the washing line as he enjoys the onsen.	Japan´s train lines are like threads that spring from Tokyo station.	2	2	セン	すじ	
1440	tighten	Đế (buộc, ràng buộc)	締	tighten, thread, spiderman, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel	15	36	Thread . . . sovereign.		The sovereign appears to be ruling, but in reality someone behind him (for instance his wife) has a thread around his throat, and if he dares to make a decision she doesn´t like, she starts pulling the thread and tightens it around his throat.	(astridtops) Spiderman managed to get behind the sovereign. (pick your favourite nowadays country ruler who isn´t doing a good job). Spidey has tightend a web around the sovereing´s throat. As long as the sovereign says what spidey whispers, he will be fine. Sovereign yelping : ´ we will draw are troops back! and we will spend more money on healthcare, schools and less on wars!´ Spidey whispering: ´ If you continue at this pace, you might be doing good things AND the people will like you.´.	JH	1	テイ	し.まる、し.まり、し.める、-し.め、-じ.め	締まる (し.まる), 締める (し.める)
1441	fiber	Duy (sợi dậy)	維	fiber, thread, spiderman, turkey	14	36	Thread . . . turkey.		Hey, Spidey! Eat that turkey if you want, but make sure you eat some fibers: you want spidey threads, don´t ya?	If you want to increase your fiber intake, just leave on those threads that are used to sew up the stuffed turkey and eat them too.	JH	1	イ		
1442	gauze	La	羅	gauze, eye, cross-eyed, net, fibre, thread, spiderman, turkey	19	36	Eye . . . fiber.		Lots of girls in Japan wear gauze patches over one eye made of course white fibers. They think it is cute, and I must admit, I have come to think so too.	"Rocky won the match but left with a nasty eye injury, and needs some gauze for it. I use a modified version of the Rocky theme song to remember this one -- ""the eye and the fiber""."	JH	1	ラ	うすもの	
1443	practice	Luyện	練	practice, thread, spiderman, east, tree, wood, sun, day	14	36	Thread . . . east.		You practice your Japanese skills in a discussion thread with lots of people from the Far East (since many of the people who are interested in studying Japanese are Asian).	Spidey stays on the east side of the city to practice. The West Side is too dangerous.	3	2	レン	ね.る、ね.り	練る (ね.る)
1444	thong	Tự (đầu mối sợi tơ, gỡ tơ phải gỡ từ đầu mối)	緒	thong, thread, spiderman, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	14	36	Thread . . . puppet. Although we usually think of a thong as coming at the end of a piece of string, this character's meaning allows for it to come at the beginning as well.		Spiderman has a secret fetish, he likes nothing better than to dress his lovedoll in a thong. Wierd, eh!	A thread is just the right size for a puppets thong.	JH	3	ショ、チョ	お、いとぐち	緒戦 (しょせん), 由緒 (ゆいしょ), 端緒 (たんしょ), 緒 (お)
1445	continue	Tục	続	continue, thread, spiderman, sell, samurai, crown, human legs	13	36	Thread . . . sell.		If you attach strings to the things you sell, you will be able to continue making profit from them even after the fact.	Even though Peter Parker has become Spiderman, he continues to sell pictures that he takes as a photographer.	4	3	ゾク、ショク、コウ、キョウ	つづ.く、つづ.ける、つぐ.ない	続く (つづ.く), 続ける (つづ.ける)
1446	picture	Hội	絵	picture, thread, spiderman, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	12	36	Thread . . . meeting.		There´s never a picture of Spiderman meeting Peter Parker... I wonder why?	When all the Threads finally Meet the Picture will emerge...	2	3	カイ、エ		絵画 (かいが)
1447	overall	Thống	統	overall, thread, spiderman, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs	12	36	Thread . . . allot.		According to Greek mythology, there's a thread alloted to everyone, and its length is the overall determinant of your fate.	Spidey is alloted the biggest crime fighter jurisdiction in NYC because his OVERALL arrest record is the best.	5	1	トウ	す.べる、ほび.る	統べる (す.べる)
1448	strangle	Giảo	絞	strangle, thread, spiderman, mingle, top hat, father	12	36	Thread . . . mingle.		Spiderman hates going to parties and having to mingle. He wants to strangle someone after just a little small talk.	At the elegant cocktail party of VIP's, the spy, dressed like everyone else in formal evening wear, sneaks in and strangles his victim with a very thin wire - a thread. Afterwards he mingles in with the crowd and disappears.	JH	1	コウ	しぼ.る、し.める、し.まる	絞まる (し.まる), 絞める (し.める), 絞る (しぼ.る)
1449	salary	Cấp	給	salary, thread, spiderman, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth	12	36	Thread . . . fit.		If your threads 糸 don't fit 合 right you're not going to be able to get a job with a decent salary.	Spiderman has so little free time in his schedule that he is unable to fit in a job with a good salary.	4	3	キュウ	たま.う、たも.う、-たま.え	
1450	entwine	Lạc	絡	entwine, thread, spiderman, each, walking legs, mouth	12	36	Thread . . . each.		When threads become entwined, each thread is tangled to another.	Spiderman entwines each villain in a tangled mess of spidersilk.	JH	2	ラク	から.む、から.まる	絡まる (から.まる), 絡む (から.む)
1451	tie	Kết	結	tie, thread, spiderman, aerosol, samurai, mouth	12	36	Thread . . . aerosol can.		"Ok, here, you have to think of the phrase ""TIE the knot"" , which means a wedding (this kanji is used in the marriage compound 結婚 けっこん ). Now, at US weddings, it ends with the couple driving away with cans being dragged behind the car. So here, think of SPIDERMAN, who will TIE the knot with Mary Jane. At his wedding, Spider THREAD attached (or TIED) to SPRAYCANS are being drug behind the limo as they drive off."	Spiderman and a fan have a competition to see who can tie up the most enemies fastest. Spidey´s using his webs and the fan is using an aerosol can of silly string. So far they are tied.	4	1	ケツ、ケチ	むす.ぶ、ゆ.う、ゆ.わえる	結ぶ (むす.ぶ), 結う (ゆ.う), 結わえる (ゆ.わえる)
1452	end	Chung	終	end, thread, spiderman, winter, walking legs, ice, drop, drop2	11	36	Thread . . . winter.		This winter is so cold that spiderman´s web gets brittle! Could this be the end of spiderman?	The thread of life begins with the spring and ends with the winter.	3	4	シュウ	お.わる、-お.わる、おわ.る、お.える、つい、つい.に	終える (お.える), 終わる (お.わる)
1453	class	Cấp	級	class, thread, spiderman, reach out, outstretched hands	9	36	Threads . . . outstretched hands.		Spider-Man reaches out to every class, rich and poor.	We can almost see the outstreched hands of the lower classes wearing just a few threads in this kanji.	3	1	キュウ		
1454	chronicle	Kỉ	紀	chronicle, thread, spiderman, snake, self	9	36	Thread . . . snake.		In a CHRONICLE the THREAD of the story can twist and turn like a SNAKE.	Worst fan fiction ever....SPIDERMAN joins the CHRONICLES of narnia to battle a big SNAKE!!	4	1	キ		
1455	crimson	Hồng	紅	crimson, thread, spiderman, craft	9	36	Thread . . . craft.		After Spider-Man is whacked in the head with a I-beam, crimson blood flows from the wound.	A person's first piece of thread craft is often stained crimson due to bleeding from the needle wounds sustained in the process.	6	2	コウ、ク	べに、くれない、あか.い	紅白 (こうはく), 紅茶 (こうちゃ), 紅葉 (こうよう), 紅 (くれない), 紅 (べに)
1456	settlement	Nạp	納	settlement, thread, spiderman, inside, person, belt	10	36	Thread . . . inside.		Have you heard about patients who have surgery and the doctor mistakenly leaves a medical instrument INSIDE the patient’s body and proceeds to stitch up the patient’s incisions with stitching THREAD? Can you say “malpractice SETTLEMENT”?　.	Spider-Man was working as a surgeon´s assistant. By accident, he threw his spider webs inside the patient, causing his death. Fortunately, the hospital reached an out-of-court settlement with the victim´s family.	6	1	ノウ、ナッ、ナ、ナン、トウ	おさ.める、-おさ.める、おさ.まる	納入 (のうにゅう), 納涼 (のうりょう), 収納 (しゅうのう), 納得 (なっとく), 納豆 (なっとう), 納屋 (なや), 納戸 (なんど), 納まる (おさ.まる), 納める (おさ.める)
1457	spinning	Phưởng	紡	spinning, thread, spiderman, compass, direction	10	36	For the kanji that means the spinning of thread and other fibers we have the elements: thread . . . compass.		Spiderman can spin his webs in any direction.	You keep me spinning right round, baby right round, like a compass baby. Spidey is making a retro 80s music video, spinning right round on his giant compass, singing his favourite song.	JH	1	ボウ	つむ.ぐ	紡ぐ (つむ.ぐ)
1458	distract	Phân	紛	distract, thread, spiderman, part, eight, sword, dagger	10	36	Thread . . . part.		It is easy for arguments to get distracted from the main thread by a tendency to part threads (splitting hairs).	"Spiderman got distracted when someone yelled, ""Spiderman, wait a minute."" He turned around and flew into a building. (""part"" also means ""minute"")."	JH	1	フン	まぎ.れる、-まぎ.れ、まぎ.らす、まぎ.らわす、まぎ.らわしい	紛らす (まぎ.らす), 紛らわしい (まぎ.らわしい), 紛らわす (まぎ.らわす), 紛れる (まぎ.れる)
1459	introduce	Thiệu	紹	introduce, thread, spiderman, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth	11	36	Thread . . . seduce.		Spiderman seduces all the girls he´s introduced to.	You only get one chance to make a first impression, so make sure you're wearing nice threads when you get introduced to a girl. Otherwise you might have trouble seducing her.	JH	2	ショウ		
1460	sūtra	Kinh	経	sutra, thread, spiderman, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground	11	36	Thread . . . spool.		The word ‘sutra’ literally means a rope or thread that holds things together. Here we see that it is a spool that is holding the threads together.	Spiderman is intriqued by some of the positions of the karma sutra, but reluctant to take part in an sutra orgy as he´d have to reveal his soiled underwear.	5	3	ケイ、キョウ	へ.る、た.つ、たていと、はか.る、のり	経費 (けいひ), 経済 (けいざい), 経験 (けいけん), 経る (へ.る)
1461	sire	Thân	紳	sire, thread, spiderman, monkey, sun, day, stick	11	36	Thread . . . monkey.		Monkeys are very adept at swinging around trees. But when they met Spiderman, who could swing around even better than they could, they all quickly addressed him as sire.	From the fairy tale ‘emperor’s new clothes.’ sire, i know you say it's made of the finest threads, but i’m afraid someone has made a monkey of you.	JH	1	シン		
1462	promise	Ước	約	promise, thread, spiderman, ladle	9	36	"Consider for a moment the etymology of the word ""promise"" in order to notice its roots in the activity of putting one thing (e.g., one's word of honor) in place of another (e.g., the fulfillment of a task). For as it turns out, this character also means ""to abridge, economize, and abbreviate"" - all activities that involve putting one thing in place of another. With that in mind, we may now work with the elements: thread . . . ladle."		He tied a thread around the ladle as a reminder of his promise to do more house work.	"Spiderman promised to get Aunt Mae´s ladle back. He started to do a blood oath by spilling drops of blood but Aunt Mae stopped him and bound up the wound. ""It´s only a ladle Peter""."	4	3	ヤク		
1463	dainty	Tế	細	dainty, thread, spiderman, rice field, brains	11	36	Thread . . . brains.		Dainty women would always rather work with thread than in a field.	Spider-Man used to just be a dainty, brainy nerd.	2	2	サイ	ほそ.い、ほそ.る、こま.か、こま.かい	細か (こま.か), 細かい (こま.かい), 細い (ほそ.い), 細る (ほそ.る)
1464	accumulate	Luỹ	累	accumulate, rice field, brains, thread, spiderman	11	36	Rice field . . . threads. Make use of the position of the elements to distinguish this kanji from that of the previous frame.		When you accumulate knowledge in your brain, neural pathways are constructed. All those pathways end up like a huge ball of thread tangled together. The more knowledge you accumulate the more threads you throw into the mix!!	(dingomick) Venom is upset because Spidey is just that much brainier than he is! He chooses to accumulate as many brains as he can, snatching them out of people´s heads and storing them on top of his own, till there´s just one massive brain on top of his head!	JH	1	ルイ		
1465	cord	Sách	索	cord, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, thread, spiderman	10	36	Chapel (see frame 930) . . . thread.		A coaxial cord has a needle-like pin, a crown cap for screwing it in, and insulation made of thread.	Spiderman has been captured and given the ultimate torture: they forced a crown of needles on his head and attached it to an electrical cord, which they are about to plug into an outlet...	JH	1	サク		
1466	general	Tổng	総	general, thread, spiderman, public, eight, elbows, heart	14	36	This kanji, meaning universal or widespread, is composed of three elements: thread . . . public . . . heart.		Spiderman could not achieve general acceptance by the media even after winning the public´s heart.	General or universal refers to the common thread running through the public's heart.	5	2	ソウ	す.べて、すべ.て、ふさ	
1467	cotton	Miên (Lụa)	綿	cotton, thread, spiderman, napkin, white, dove, towel	14	36	Thread . . . white . . . towels.		Spiderman´s polyethylene suit starts to ride up after a while, so he always looks forward to the white cotton towels he wears while lounging around his apartment.	Cotton is the preferred thread for making white towels.	5	2	メン	わた	綿 (わた)
1468	silk	Quyên (lụa)	絹	silk, thread, spiderman, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	13	36	Thread . . . mouth . . . flesh.		Silk threads are coming out of the caterpillar's mouth to cover its flesh while it transforms into a cocoon.	Spider-man loves to run his mouth all over Mary Jane´s silky flesh.	6	1	ケン	きぬ	絹 (きぬ)
1469	winding	Tao	繰	winding, thread, spiderman, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3	19	36	Thread . . . goods . . . tree.		Winding thread around wooden goods (paper) to ready them for safe transport.	After stopping a bank heist, Spiderman is seen winding his webbing around the stolen goods to trap them in a tree until the police arrive to take them back.	JH	1	ソウ	く.る	繰る (く.る)
1470	inherit	Kế	継	inherit, thread, spiderman, rice, fishhook	13	36	Thread . . . rice . . . fishhook. Compare frame 1218.		A poor chinese fisherman could expect to inherit: the thread for his pole, a hook for catching something to eat, and some rice to live off of. (not concentrating on stroke order, sorry if that throws anyone off). (Adapted from bigloui,12-4-2006).	Spider-Man is hooked on rice--it´s all he inherited from his Uncle Ben. (thanks Nukemarine).	JH	1	ケイ	つ.ぐ、まま-	継ぐ (つ.ぐ)
1471	green	Lục	緑	green, thread, spiderman, dustpan, broom, grains of rice	14	36	Thread . . . broom . . . rice grains.		Spiderman's nemesis the Green Goblin is in a slump; He's replaced his glider with a broom and is throwing grains of rice instead of bombs.	In summer, all of Japan turns green with the green threads that fan out like brooms to later produce grains of rice. An easy image if you have ever looked out the window of the train to see all the summer rice paddies...	3	2	リョク、ロク	みどり	緑茶 (りょくちゃ), 緑陰 (みどりいん), 新緑 (しんりょく), 緑 (みどり)
1472	affinity	Duyên	縁	affinity, thread, spiderman, broom, sow, pig	15	36	Thread . . . broom . . . sow.		There once was a lonely little pig that constantly followed Spiderman, always nuzzling his leg and oinking tenderly. Spiderman finally caved in and decided to keep the little pig under one condition: the pig was to take a broom and sweep up all of Spiderman´s leftover threads after having fought crime. The pig felt such affinity for Spiderman, he happily accepted—and did a good job too.	Certain people have an affinity for romantic partners who are handy with thread and a broom - it is of no consequence if they look like pigs. hmm...	JH	1	エン、ネン	ふち、ふちど.る、ゆかり、よすが、へり、えにし	縁 (ふち)
1473	netting	Võng	網	netting, thread, spiderman, glass jar, hood, horns, one, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook	14	36	Thread . . . glass canopy . . . animal horns . . . perish.		Spiderman traps The Rhino under the hood of his famous netting, where even Rhino´s horns can not break free, in fact if the netting did not dissappear after a few hours then Rhino might even perish in there.	You use a 糸 to make a net shaped like a hood. A stray animal got caught in it by its horns and perished.	JH	1	モウ	あみ	網 (あみ)
1474	tense	Khẩn	緊	tense, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, thread, spiderman	15	36	Slave . . . crotch . . . thread.		You'd be tense too if you were a slave and your owner removed the threads covering your crotch.	Whenever Venom is tense, he loses control of his sex drive and becomes a slave to his crotch.	JH	1	キン		
1475	purple	Tử (tử ngoại)	紫	purple, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, thread, spiderman	12	36	Footprint . . . spoon . . . thread.		Venom starts to choke on a spoon. He's about to get it out, when you manage to stop the spoon from getting out, so he turns purple, as he chokes, and dies.	Why is your ass purple? Well, I stopped and sat for a bit on a pile of thread... (I guess it was freshly dyed).	JH	1	シ	むらさき	紫 (むらさき)
1476	truss	Phược, phọc (bộc, trói chặt)	縛	truss, thread, spiderman, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue	16	36	Threads . . . acupuncturist.		Spidey received good word that the acupuncturist working down the road was actually the evil Doctor Octopus! Spidey headed over to the clinic, and trussed the acupuncturist Doc Oc up using the maniac´s own metal limbs!	Because people are so afraid of the procedure, string has to be used by the acunpunturist to truss up his victims, er, patients.	JH	1	バク	しば.る	縛る (しば.る)
1477	straw rope	Thằng	縄	straw rope, thread, spiderman, eels, sun, day	15	36	Thread . . . eels.		"The tortoise has escaped! We tied it up with a straw rope, but all that´s left of the rope are some torn threads, and the unbound tortoise is nowhere to be found. (Note that the right half here is not ""eels"". This is (in my opinion) a mistake in the RTK book, as we already decided in waterfall (#537) to refer to the simplified form of dragon as ""eels"". It is much better to call the right half of this character an ""unbound tortoise"".)."	When Spiderman fights the giant tortoise, he grabs a straw rope from the edges of the sumo ring and swings it at his head. However, the tortoise quickly tucks his head back into his shell to avoid the blow (hence no head on the tortoise).	JH	1	ジョウ	なわ、ただ.す	縄 (なわ)
1478	infancy	Ấu	幼	infancy, cocoon, power, muscle, arnold	5	36	Cocoon . . . muscle.		In its infancy, a butterfly is protected by a cocoon, as it doesn´t yet have any power of its own.	During their infancy, children are often wrapped up tight like a cocoon (i.e. in those Snugli carriers) and supported by the muscle of their parents.	6	2	ヨウ	おさな.い	幼い (おさな.い)
1479	behind	Hậu	後	behind, Nelson, column, going, line, cocoon, walking legs	9	36	Line . . . cocoon . . . walking legs.		Column of walking legs (caterpillar) getting into a cocoon, about to leave its past self behind.	after a grub goes through the cocoon stage, it leaves its walking legs behind for a life of flight.	2	5	ゴ、コウ	のち、うし.ろ、うしろ、あと、おく.れる	後刻 (ごこく), 前後 (ぜんご), 午後 (ごご), 後 (あと), 後ろ (うし.ろ), 後れる (おく.れる), 後 (のち)
1480	faint	U (tăm tối)	幽	seclude, faint, cocoon, mountain, cocoon2	9	36	Two cocoons . . . mountain. Observe how the two vertical strokes of the mountain are extended upwards to serve as a kind of enclosure.		The villagers haven´t the faintest idea that giant coccoons resting in the mountain are soon to hatch.	Frodo and Sam fainted in the mountains and the spider wrapped them in cacoons.	JH	1	ユウ、ヨウ	ふか.い、かす.か、くら.い、しろ.い	
1481	how many	Kỷ, ky	幾	how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2	12	36	Two cocoons . . . person . . . fiesta.	* As a primitive, this kanji will mean an abacus, the bead-instrument used in the Orient to calculate how many.	It is a little awkward when you are at a fiesta and the host serves some rare delicacy, like moth cocoons, the guests must decide how many it would be polite to eat. You do the math in your head and it comes out to two cocoons per person. This is why the horizontal line is a fraction bar with two cocoons on the top, and one person the bottom.	How many went to the party? Two aliens and one person (I feel sorry for that person).	JH	3	キ	いく-、いく.つ、いく.ら	幾 (いく)
1482	mechanism	Cơ	機	mechanism, tree, wood, abacus, how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2	16	36	Tree . . . abacus.		An abacus is a mechanism made of wood used to calculate how many ´anythings´.	"To avoid confusing with contraption (#677), focus on the ""ism"" of mechanism. For example, fetishism refers to having a fetish; mechanism here refers to having a mecha-like property, where mecha is a type of anime robot that can transform itself. Imagine a mecha that can transform itself between two forms: a huge immovable tree (as a form of defense) and a gigantic marching abacus that smashes enemies between its giant beads."	4	3	キ	はた	機 (はた)
1484	mysterious	Huyền	玄	mysterious, top hat, cocoon	5	36	Top hat . . . cocoon.		What could be more mysterious than a cocoon in a top hat trying to sneak in...? (Pimitive: GANDALF).	The invisible man in his top hat and cocoon of white bandages is the most mysterious man in the world.	JH	1	ゲン		
1485	livestock	Súc	畜	livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains	10	36	Mysterious . . . rice field.		The livestock are disappearing! I´ve placed Gandalf over the rice field to protect them.	This mysterious rice field grows not only rice, but livestock too! Picture little pigs and chickens growing right out of the ground, among the rice plants. How bizarre!	JH	2	チク		
1486	amass	Súc	蓄	amass, flowers, livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains	13	36	Flowers . . . livestock.		One sneaky farmer wanted to amass a large collection of livestock. We all know that cows like to eat flowers, so he planted lines of flowers leading to his own fields. The livestock followed the lines, eating the flowers one by one, and amassed in his field.	Kobe beef. The Japanese amass a fortune pampering livestock feeding them flowers, offering beer, playing music and giving them massages… RTK2:　チク　蓄電池　ちくでんち(battery cell)…　Pure Group:　畜1384.	JH	1	チク	たくわ.える	蓄える (たくわ.える)
1487	bowstring	Huyền	弦	bowstring, bow, mysterious, top hat, cocoon	8	36	Bow . . . mysterious.		A magic bow that only Gandalf can yield: there is no bowstring on it, and he uses his magic to fire arrows.	A bow with a mysterious invisible bowstring.	JH	1	ゲン	つる	弦 (つる)
1488	hug	Ủng	擁	hug, finger, fingers, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, turkey	16	36	Fingers . . . mysterious . . . turkey. Note that the top hat is extended across both elements, though it belongs only to the cocoon. This means that you may either use mysterious - as we did here - or take the three elements separately.		Imagine Gandalf hugging a turkey....ouch! It bit off his finger!	A mysterious turkey with human fingers wants to hug me... I will never go to Tokyo Disneyland again!	JH	1	ヨウ		
1489	nourishing	Tư	滋	nourishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2	12	36	Water . . . double-mysterious. Note the doubling up of the element for top hat in the primitive for mysterious and assign it a special image, as it will come up in the next two frames.		Water is doubly mysterious. It´s in all our nourishment...and yet, it´s really not nourishing at all.	Going off the idea of the right side meaning rapid growth/increase of small objects, I´ve decided to make the right side be Gremlins, those little mysterious creatures that double rapidly. Gremlins find water a little too nourishing, as it makes them instantly multiply.	JH	1	ジ		
1490	mercy	Từ	慈	mercy, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, heart, cocoon2	13	36	Double-mysterious . . . heart.		Mercy comes from the doubly mysterious heart of God.	Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won´t do the job...	JH	1	ジ	いつく.しむ	慈しむ (いつく.しむ)
1491	magnet	Từ	磁	magnet, stone, rock, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2	14	36	Stone . . . double-mysterious.		A magnet is a rock with two sides; one that mysteriously pushes and one that pulls; doubly mysterious. (see astridtops´ story).	I found some stones on the siamese twins. Turns out the stones were magnetic, and they weren´t siamese twins at all!	6	1	ジ		
1492	lineage	Hệ	系	lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman	7	36	The single stroke added to the beginning of the primitive for thread gives the image of threads woven into a single cord. Hence the meaning, lineage. [7]	* As a primitive, we shall give this kanji the meaning of yarn, as the uniting of many threads into a single strand is most obvious with yarn.	(Primitive: DNA, a drop of looong spiraled thread that is the key to your lineage).	Spiderman´s lineage (who his family is etc...) can be found in his DNA in a drop of blood. The villain that gets blood of Spidey will be able to find out who is family and lineage is. be carfefull spidey...	6	1	ケイ		
1493	person in charge	Hệ (Quan hệ)	係	person in charge, person, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman	9	36	Person . . . yarn.		Mister T gets a DNA test, and discovers that he was meant to be the person in charge after all.	The person in charge usually must come from a long standing lineage of persons in charge.	3	3	ケイ	かか.る、かかり、-がかり、かか.わる	係る (かか.る), 係 (かかり)
1494	grandchild	Tôn	孫	grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman	10	36	Child . . . yarn.		Your grandchild is the child of your DNA.	Your child continues the family lineage by passing on your DNA, giving you a grandchild.	4	2	ソン	まご	孫 (まご)
1495	suspend	Huyền	懸	suspend, prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little, lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman, heart	20	36	Prefecture . . . yarn . . . heart.		The prefecture has suspended all DNA research for heart disease because of corruption. All involved will be suspended by their wrists.	There's a suspension bridge connecting one of the prefectures to the Japanese heartland. The supporting cables of the bridge actually look like DNA double-helices. That's Japan for you!	JH	1	ケン、ケ	か.ける、か.かる	懸垂 (けんすい), 懸賞 (けんしょう), 懸命 (けんめい), 懸かる (か.かる), 懸ける (か.ける)
1497	instead	Khước (Khước từ)	却	instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp	7	37	Gone . . . stamp.		[instead; on the contrary; rather] Gone is the time for stamps - use e-mail instead.	If you tried to attach money to an envelope to pay for postage it would be GONE before it arrived at the post office. That´s why we use STAMPS instead.	JH	1	キャク	かえ.って、しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける	
1498	shins	Cước	脚	skids, shins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp	11	37	Part of the body . . . instead. This character has more or less the same meaning as that for leg learned back in frame 1372. It can also indicate the part of the legs from the shins down, which explains the choice of the key word.		Shins are the part of the body that one uses instead of one´s eyes, for finding furniture in the dark. (Ouch!).	Shins are the part of the body that Japanese traditionally sit on instead of their asses.	JH	1	キャク、キャ、カク	あし	脚部 (きゃくぶ), 脚本 (きゃくほん), 三脚 (さんきゃく), 脚 (あし)
1499	wholesale	Tá (bán buôn)	卸	wholesale, horseshoe, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp	9	37	The left primitive is a union of a horse and footprint. To the right, the stamp.		Selling WHOLESALE HORSES over the internet had to be STOPPED because the cost of STAMPS was too much.	If you need horseshoes (shoes that fit your horse´s footprint), buy them at the wholesale shop. They lick and paste stamps in your membership card so you can get free merchandise later.	JH	1	シャ	おろ.す、おろし、おろ.し	卸す (おろ.す), 卸 (おろし)
1500	honorable	Ngự (của vua)	御	honorable, Nelson, column, going, line, wholesale, horseshoe, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp	12	37	Line . . . wholesale.		An honorable man will not try to cut in front of the line at the wholesale stamp store. (Imagine just how much honor it takes facing those long lines at the post office!).	If a trader has an honorable reputation- then people will line up to buy his wholesale goods.	JH	3	ギョ、ゴ	おん-、お-、み-	御者 (ぎょしゃ), 制御 (せいぎょ), 御 (おん)
1501	clothing	Phục	服	clothing, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, underpants, stamp, crotch	8	37	Flesh . . . stamp . . . crotch. Note how the stamp is stretched out here.		It´s customary to cover the flesh with clothing, but some designs are so outrageous they´re not bigger than a stamp that just covers your crotch.	Modern clothing shows a lot of flesh -- some is practically no more than a postage stamp covering your crotch!	3	4	フク		
1502	fate	Mệnh	命	fate, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth, stamp	8	37	This character connotes life in general, but also the particular life that is fated one by virtue of the distinctive character with which one is born. Its elements are: fit . . . stamp. The bottom portion of fit is nudged to the left in order to make room for the stamp.		When you´re born, your fate is measured, fitted, and stamped onto your soul. Good luck defying it.	Your ability to resist FATE can be fit on a postage stamp.	3	3	メイ、ミョウ	いのち	命令 (めいれい), 運命 (うんめい), 生命 (せいめい), 命 (いのち)
1503	orders	Lệnh	令	orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko	5	37	Meeting . . . chop-seal.		"(re: dingomick) ""These are your orders,"" declares the general while passing out documents at the meeting. As everyone started to leave, the general exclaims ""Oh wait! I need to certify these orders!"" and went around stamping each paper with his personal chop-seal."	These are your orders, declares the general at the meeting as he stamps them with his chop-seal. (Primitive: chop-seal imaged as a papal ring, the one´s they would press into wax as their official seal. Also a cattle brand.).	4	2	レイ		
1504	zero	Linh	零	zero, rain, weather, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko	13	37	Rain . . . orders.		The amount of people that can order the rain to rain.	Despite the rain, the zero pilot flies on. He has kamikaze orders.	JH	2	レイ	ぜろ、こぼ.す、こぼ.れる	
1505	age	Linh	齢	age, teeth, tooth, stop, footprint, rice, shovel, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko	17	37	This character is used to express the years of one's age. Its elements: teeth . . . orders.		You know you are fast approaching a ripe old AGE when you get ORDERS from the dentist to get new TEETH.	This has the nuance of a life milestone. Here it's represented by the life-cycle of teeth: In childhood, your teeth give the orders, growing whenever they want. As a teenager, we give orders to the teeth, by putting braces on them. In old age, we order new teeth!	JH	2	レイ	よわ.い、とし	
1506	cool	Lãnh (lạnh)	冷	cool, ice, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko	7	37	Ice . . . orders.		To keep your water cool, just order some ice.	The Japanese boss gives an order at the meeting: eat ice to stay cool (since they won´t be running the air conditioning anymore).	4	3	レイ	つめ.たい、ひ.える、ひ.や、ひ.ややか、ひ.やす、ひ.やかす、さ.める、さ.ます	冷ます (さ.ます), 冷める (さ.める), 冷たい (つめ.たい), 冷える (ひ.える), 冷や (ひ.や), 冷やかす (ひ.やかす), 冷やす (ひ.やす)
1507	jurisdiction	Lãnh, lĩnh	領	jurisdiction, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	14	37	Orders . . . head.		Two cowboys are crossing a state limit. One says to him “Did you know that in this Jurisdiction there are Orders to get your head?”, so he takes out his gun and shoots him. He claims the reward afterwards. (Thanks Fuaburisu).	Orders are given by the head person in any jurisdiction.	5	2	リョウ	えり	
1508	small bell	Linh	鈴	small bell, metal, gold, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko	13	37	Gold . . . orders.		Some restaurants have a small gold bell to call someone to take customers´ orders.	In high society, people ring a small golden bell to call their servants and give their orders.	JH	1	レイ、リン	すず	電鈴 (でんれい), 振鈴 (しんすず), 予鈴 (よれい), 鈴 (すず)
1509	courage	Dũng	勇	courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold	9	37	Chop-seal . . . man.		I imagined some kind of initiation rite in old China, where every young man has to show his courage. They then receive a chopseal which is a mark of their courage.	Re: fuaburisu - The initiation rite in question is actually a reverse elbow chop to the brain, and you receive the chop seal if you have the power to withstand it. This initial imagery helps me with the altered chop seal and vertical placement.	4	2	ユウ	いさ.む	勇む (いさ.む)
1511	traffic	Thông	通	traffic, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize, road	10	37	Chop-seal . . . utilize . . . road. By combining the first two primitives into a single image, you will be able to use that image in a few instances later, one of which comes immediately.		I bounce down the road on my pogo stick, easily getting through the dense traffic. (Note: New primitive: chop-seal + utilize = pogo stick. Because a chop-seal is long and thin with a rubbery bit at the end. If it were big enough, you could utilize it as a pogo stick). [Edit: pogo stick also appears in 1409, 1690, 2530].	Building on gorgon´s story I now change mine to a much more silly and rememberable one. The Chinese police is using a helicopter to check and regulate the traffic. Hanging from the helicopter is a huge chopseal that they utilize to mark some of the cars that are causing trouble on the road.	2	4	ツウ、ツ	とお.る、とお.り、-とお.り、-どお.り、とお.す、とお.し、-どお.し、かよ.う	通行 (つうこう), 通読 (つうどく), 普通 (ふつう), 通う (かよ.う), 通す (とお.す), 通る (とお.る)
1512	jump	Dược (nhảy múa)	踊	jump, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize	14	37	Wooden leg . . . chop-seal . . . utilize.		The winner of the long jump competition was disqualified when they found he used a pogo stick tied to his leg to jump further.	"The high jumper has his wooden leg fitted with a pogo stick, and can now jump even higher. (See my note at traffic (#1408) for pogo stick). EDIT (2 years later): Keyword ""jump"" leads to confusion later on (see cjon256´s post), ""Dancing"" would be better (but be sure to keep it distinct from dance (#1774)). New Story: I was no good at dancing due to my wooden leg... until I had it fitted with a pogo stick!"	JH	2	ヨウ	おど.る	踊り (おど.り), 踊る (おど.る)
1513	doubt	Nghi	疑	doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters	14	37	Spoon . . . dart . . . chop-seal . . . zoo.		(Katsuo) You come at the zoo entrance. ´Here sir, a spoon to feed the animals.´ cool ´and a dart(gun) in case stuff go wrong´ ....´ please chop-seal (sign) here for in case of accidents the zoo is not responsible.´ ´lion feeding time is. bla bla´ You are having serious doubts about if you still want to go into this zoo.	A very doubtful story: At the entrance to my local zoo they issue you with a special spoon (to feed the animals) and a dart gun (to defend yourself in case of animal attack). You must then hanko (seal) a document to say you’ve received both these items, only after which will they let you enter the zoo. (Oh, and if you forget your hanko, I doubt they’ll let you in).	6	3	ギ	うたが.う	疑う (うたが.う)
1514	mimic	Nghĩ	擬	mimic, finger, fingers, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters	17	37	Fingers . . . doubt.		Ask a MIMIC to give an impression of DOUBT, and he will no DOUBT scratch his head with his FINGER.	I doubt you can mimic all these animals with just your fingers: http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Raymond+Crowe%22+Letterman (shadow puppets -- you´ll love it!).	JH	1	ギ	まが.い、もど.き	
1515	congeal	Ngưng (ngưng kết, ngưng tụ)	凝	congeal, ice, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters	16	37	Ice . . . doubt.		I doubt that the jello would congeal sitting on the counter, so I placed it in the icebox.	Is there any doubt that ice is congealed stuff?	JH	1	ギョウ	こ.る、こ.らす、こご.らす、こご.らせる、こご.る	凝らす (こ.らす), 凝る (こ.る)
1516	pattern	Phạm (phạm vi, mô phạm, phép, khuôn mẫu)	範	pattern, bamboo, car, fingerprint	15	37	Bamboo . . . car . . . fingerprint.		This pattern made of bamboo is for a new model of car designed to leave as small an ecological fingerprint as possible.	I just had a new bamboo-leaf pattern spray-painted on my car. Don't touch it, you'll leave fingerprints!	JH	1	ハン		
1517	crime	Phạm	犯	crime, pack of wild dogs, fingerprint	5	37	Wild dogs . . . fingerprint.		Crimes can often be solved using the tools of dogs and fingerprints.	This crime gang has yet to be caught because their pack of wild dogs takes care of licking off the fingerprints from all the crime scenes.	5	3	ハン、ボン	おか.す	犯す (おか.す)
1519	unlucky	Ách (tai ách, khổ ách, khổ sở)	厄	unlucky, cliff, fingerprint	4	37	Cliff . . . fingerprint.		Seeing some finger prints at the edge of a cliff, I wondered who that unlucky person was.	Sherlock Holmes is very unlucky: he just fell off a cliff while he was looking around for fingerprints.	JH	1	ヤク		
1520	dangerous	Nguy	危	dangerous, bound up, unlucky, cliff, fingerprint	6	37	Bound up . . . unlucky.		If you live a dangerous life, eventually you're bound to get unlucky.	While rock climbing you are bound to the cliff by just your fingerprints, which is why it´s so dangerous.	6	3	キ	あぶ.ない、あや.うい、あや.ぶむ	危ない (あぶ.ない), 危うい (あや.うい), 危ぶむ (あや.ぶむ)
1521	address	Uyển	宛	address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint	8	37	House . . . mailbox.		Your address should be displayed on your house and mailbox.	For the primitive: This is a hi-tech Japanese mailbox, it automatically lights up in the evening, and has a biometric fingerprint scanner. --- Each house´s address, even if it´s hard to see in the evening, is like its own unique fingerprint.	JH		エン	あ.てる、-あて、-づつ、あたか.も	宛てる (あ.てる)
1522	arm	Oản (Cánh tay)	腕	arm, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint	12	37	Part of the body . . . address.		Like in Memento, I tattoo my address on my forearm flesh so I don´t forget it.	In Iraq people are having their addresses tattooed on their bodies, usually their arms, so they can be identified if they are killed. (true story).	JH	2	ワン	うで	腕 (うで)
1523	garden	Uyển	苑	garden, flowers, mailbox, evening, fingerprint	8	37	Flowers . . . mailbox.		"Japanese ""gardens"" aren´t anything more than a pot of flowers on top of the mailbox."	My mailbox is actually right in the middle of my garden, which kind of sucks since the mailman has to trample all my flowers to get to it.	Names	1	エン、オン	その、う.つ	
1524	grudge	Oán	怨	grudge, mailbox, evening, fingerprint, heart	9	37	Mailbox . . . heart.		I couldn´t drop my grudge against him. So I put a severed pig´s heart in his mailbox. He got the message.	To hold a grudge is actually the act of keeping negative feelings you received in the mailbox of your heart.	JH		エン、オン、ウン	うら.む、うらみ、うら.めしい	
1525	willow	Liêu	柳	willow, tree, wood, blown eggs, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp	9	37	Tree . . . receipt . . . stamp.		Having decided to use SIGN OF THE HARE rather than RECEIPT and STAMP my mnemonic goes as follows: The WILLOW is the TREE that droops likes a HARE´s ears.	A strange thing about the japanese willow tree is, it grows eggs... but the eggs have no yokes. weird eh?	JH	1	リュウ	やなぎ	柳 (やなぎ)
1526	egg	Noãn	卵	egg, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp, drops	7	37	Receipt . . . stamp . . . and a drop in each side to represent a little smear of egg yoke. The third stroke is drawn slightly higher to close the egg up tightly and keep the yoke inside.		The Easter Bunny dropped an egg on my desk and got yolk all over my receipts and stamps.	The 卯sign of the hare (#2041) hides eggs in his ears for Easter...　RTK2:　ラン　卵巣　らんそう(ovary).	6	2	ラン	たまご	卵 (たまご)
1527	detain	Lưu	留	detain, receipt, sword, dagger, rice field, brains	10	37	Receipt . . . dagger . . . rice field.		The use of RANSOM NOTE (think of a receipt with a dagger through it on a door) works great with DETAIN. Here the RANSOM NOTE says that the girl has been DETAINED in an undisclosed location. To get her back take the RANSOM to a empty FIELD.	Got a receipt for that dagger, son? If not, we´re going to detain you and send you to work in the rice fields.	5	3	リュウ、ル	と.める、と.まる、とど.める、とど.まる、るうぶる	留意 (りゅうい), 留学 (りゅうがく), 保留 (ほりゅう), 留まる (と.まる), 留める (と.める)
1529	trade	Mậu (Mậu dịch, trao đổi)	貿	trade, receipt, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	37	Receipt . . . dagger . . . shells. Though the meanings are related, do not confuse with make a deal (Frame 471) or wholesale (Frame 1499).		There´s a buyback program where you can trade in your dagger for money. But it´s quite ineffective, since only registered dagger-owners with the original receipts can participate, and not criminals with illegally-purchased daggers.	The new RANSOM note (a receipt stuck to a door with a dagger) from DETAIN (1423) appears again (probably after you went to the field as instructed) now gives instruction to TRADE the victim for CURRENCY you were told to bring.	5	2	ボウ		
1530	stamp	Ấn	印	stamp, staples, stamp	6	37	At last we come to the general character meaning stamp. Its elements: staples . . . stamp.		Before sticky backs, they had to staple stamps to letters.	Aaaagh, this old stamp doesn´t stick! Okay I´ll just staple it.	4	2	イン	しるし、-じるし、しる.す	印 (しるし)
1533	entertain	Hưng (hứng)	興	entertain, staples, same, monks, hood, one, mouth, tool, animal legs, eight	16	37	Mortar . . . same . . . tool. Be careful to make an image that keeps same in the middle.		To me, this looks like a pictograph of a road leading to the big city (see the buildings?) where there are plenty of places to be entertained. Unfortunately in this city, every store is the same: staples. What tools! [ayoung24].	Photographically, this kanji simply looks like a set of two speakers (the staples primitives) between the sub-woofer (primitive for same) -- all this as a tool to entertain a group of drunks at a club.	5	1	コウ、キョウ	おこ.る、おこ.す	興行 (こうぎょう), 復興 (ふっこう), 振興 (しんこう), 興す (おこ.す), 興る (おこ.る)
1534	sign of the bird	Dậu (con gà)	酉	sign of the bird, whiskey bottle, west, one	7	38	Though we shall later encounter the kanji for bird, we introduce this one for the tenth sign of the zodiac mainly because of its use as a primitive, where it has a different meaning.	"* As a primitive, it means whiskey bottle. In its pictograph, you can see the loosely corked lid, the bottle and the contents (about one-third full). You might also think of the Spanish ""porrón,"" a decanter shaped like a long-necked bird."	The sign of the bird on this whiskey bottle is of course the Famous Grouse blended Scotch.	"Normally birds fly south, but one bird flew west. People were worried about it and kept asking ""Is there any sign of the bird – you know, the one that flew west?""."	Names	1	ユウ	とり	
1535	saké	Tửu	酒	sake, water, water droplets, water pistol, whiskey bottle	10	38	Water . . . whiskey bottle.		Sake is just watered down whisky.	Sake is the generic term for alcohol (not just japanese rice wine). And a very popular alcoholic drink in Japan is whiskey and water.	3	3	シュ	さけ、さか-	酒 (さけ)
1536	bartending	Chước	酌	bartending, whiskey bottle, ladle	10	38	Whiskey bottle . . . ladle.		At the local pub, their bartending practises are unusual. They serve the whiskey by pouring it from a ladle, like one would from the punch bowl.	Ever seen the anime Bartender? Bartending isn´t just about bottles of whiskey, it´s about ladling out advice.	JH	1	シャク	く.む	酌む (く.む)
1538	fermentation	Giếu, diếu	酵	fermentation, whiskey bottle, filial piety, old man, child	14	38	Whiskey bottle . . . filial piety.		The secrets of fermentation are passed to the son who displays the most filial piety.	Since filial piety is all about respecting ones elders, and the older a whiskey bottle is (i.e. the time it have spent undergoing fermentation) the more respect you should give it, the meaning of this kanji becomes clear. If it doesn´t, sink back some whiskey and it will.	JH	1	コウ		
1539	cruel	Khốc	酷	cruel, whiskey bottle, revelation, cow, mouth	14	38	Whiskey bottle . . . revelation.		It´s cruel to pour alcohol down a cow´s mouth.	There is a saying that a drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts. Be careful about giving someone a bottle of whiskey, you may get some revelations about their cruelty. Of course, they'll just say that it's the whiskey speaking.	JH	1	コク	ひど.い	
1540	repay	Thù (báo trả, thù đáp)	酬	repay, whiskey bottle, state, stream, drop, drop3	13	38	Whiskey bottle . . . state.		Imagine a different kind of tax refund - instead of money, the state repays you with whiskey.	Hint: bottle deposit refund - the state will repay the recycling deposit for each alcohol bottle returned.	JH	1	シュウ、シュ、トウ	むく.いる	
1541	dairy products	Lạc	酪	dairy products, whiskey bottle, each, walking legs, mouth	13	38	Whiskey bottle . . . each.		"Imagine if at each supermarket you went to, the section for dairy products was next to the alcohol aisle. so for each wheel of cheese you decide to buy, you get an accompanying bottle of wine...perfect for a ""wine & cheese"" party. :)."	In an attempt to increase sales of dairy products, the grocery store is giving away a free miniature whiskey bottle with each dairy product you buy.	JH	1	ラク		
1542	vinegar	Tạc	酢	vinegar, whiskey bottle, saw	12	38	Whiskey bottle . . . saw.		Drinking alcohol that´s turned to vinegar feels like a saw going down your throat.	I spent ages sawing that whiskey bottle open, but when I got in, it had all turned to vinegar!	JH	1	サク	す	酢 (す)
1543	drunk	Tuý	酔	drunk, whiskey bottle, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle	11	38	Whiskey bottle . . . baseball . . . needle.		God you´re drunk! How many whiskeys did you have? 9? 10?	Whiskey with 90 percent alcohol will get you drunk. I don´t care who you are.	JH	1	スイ	よ.う、よ.い、よ	酔う (よ.う)
1544	distribute	Phối	配	distribute, whiskey bottle, snake, self	10	38	Whisky bottle . . . snake.		To DISTRIBUTE WHISKY during Prohibition you had to be as sneaky as a SNAKE.	I imagine a bartender serving whiskey to his patrons, and using that snake-like sprayer to distribute soda water into each glass.	3	3	ハイ	くば.る	配る (くば.る)
1545	acid	Toan	酸	acid, whiskey bottle, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs	14	38	Whiskey bottle . . . license . . . walking legs.		The prostitute carries an old whiskey bottle filled with acid to throw at any difficult Johns.	Dealing alcohol requires a license, dealing acid requires fast legs (to run from the police).	5	1	サン	す.い	酸い (す.い)
1546	waver	Do (do dự)	猶	furthermore, waver, pack of wild dogs, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle	12	38	Wild dogs . . . animal horns . . . whiskey bottle.		The waver for this kanji means to hesitate. I wavered before going into the bar with a bunch of horned wild dogs drinking whiskey straight out of the bottle.	I wavered when the pack of wild dogs was blocking the way, but then I drank some Red Bull and charged through. (thanks shakkun).	JH	1	ユウ、ユ	なお	
1547	revered	Tôn	尊	revered, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue	12	38	Animal horns . . . whiskey bottle . . . glue.		I drank the Devil Whiskey and was revered by all. Too bad I had to have my anus glued shut from the damage it did to my digestive system...	Red Bull, the chieftain (#2906) is so revered in his clan that everyone sticks to him like glue.	6	2	ソン	たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ	尊い (たっと.い), 尊ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 尊い (とうと.い), 尊ぶ (とうと.ぶ)
1548	beans	Đậu	豆	beans, table, one, mouth	7	38	This kanji depicts a pot of beans, although it looks more like a table on which the pot is resting.	* As a primitive, this kanji will mean table.	If I eat BEANS, after ONE MOUTHful I fart like some kind of HORNED ANIMAL.	I hate using primitives that are completely unrelated. Let´s call this one Mr. Bean! He´s an easy character to build stories with.	3	1	トウ、ズ	まめ、まめ-	豆腐 (とうふ), 納豆 (なっとう), 豆 (まめ)
1549	head	Đầu	頭	head, beans, table, one, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	16	38	Here we meet at last the full kanji on which the primitive for head is based. The elements: table . . . head.		The head of the family sits at the head of the table.	Mr Bean´s head.	2	3	トウ、ズ、ト	あたま、かしら、-がしら、かぶり	頭部 (とうぶ), 年頭 (ねんとう), 船頭 (せんどう), 頭脳 (ずのう), 頭上 (ずじょう), 頭痛 (ずつう), 頭 (あたま), 頭 (かしら)
1550	short	Đoản	短	short, dart, drop, heavens, beans, table, one, mouth	12	38	Dart . . . table.		He is so short so he has to throw darts from the table.	Sort of like ping pong, this kanji represents a game where you throw darts over a table at your opponent. The serve is rarely returned, so the games tend to be short.------------ This character apparently refers to duration, not just to height.	3	2	タン	みじか.い	短い (みじか.い)
1551	bountiful	Phong (phong phú)	豊	bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth	13	38	Bend . . . table. Think of a bountiful harvest, and you will not be far from the meaning of this character.		The bountiful feast was so bountiful that it bent the table below it under its weight! いただきま〜す！.	Her bust and bum was so bountiful I couldn´t resist the urge to bend her over a nearby table and...	5	2	ホウ、ブ	ゆた.か、とよ	豊 (ゆたか)
1552	drum	Cố	鼓	drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, branch, ten, needle, crotch	13	38	The full kanji for the drum adds a branch, apparently to serve as a drumstick, to the primitive for drum.		Japanese festivals have drums so big, a samurai has to SIT (not stand) on a table to beat one with a tree branch! http://www.d2.dion.ne.jp/~hidafyh/furukawayh/gyouji/image/maturi03.jpg.	"I really hate the primitive meaning of ""table"" for ""bean."" I just use ""bean."" Anyways, for the DRUM primitive, imagine a SAMURAI who beats on a DRUM with two chopsticks, and a BEAN skewered on each end of the chopstick to produce a better sound. And the obvious story is: ""DRUMing on a DRUM with a huge BRANCH""."	JH	1	コ	つづみ	鼓 (つづみ)
1553	rejoice	Hỷ, hỉ	喜	rejoice, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, mouth, mouth2	12	38	Drum . . . mouth.		The samurai sitting on the drum is on a stage, and the people below him are rejoicing with their mouths in unison. It helps me to imagine the placement this way.	In the taiko (drum (#1444)) song of rejoicing, the drummers shout with open mouths.	4	3	キ	よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす	喜ぶ (よろこ.ぶ)
1554	timber-trees	Thụ (cây, cổ thụ)	樹	timber-trees, tree, wood, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, glue	16	38	Trees . . . drum . . . glue.		The hippies object to trees being cut down for timber. They have glued themselves to the timber-trees and are beating their drums.	"Everyone likes to see big trees fall down. For this kanji imagine hundreds of spectators glued to their chairs, then a drum roll and then a cry of ""timber!!!"" as the huge tree crashes to the ground."	6	1	ジュ	き	
1555	dish	Mãnh	皿	dish	5	38	The kanji for a dish is, clearly, the pictograph of a painted or carved bowl, seen from the side.		Three dishes stacked side-by-side in a dishwasher.	Pictograph of a dish with a three-layer cake slice on it.	3	2	ベイ	さら	皿 (さら)
1556	blood	Huyết	血	blood, drop, dish	6	38	The drop in the dish is blood. It is similar to the drop we saw earlier on the dagger in the character for blade (Frame 88).		You cut yourself washing the dishes, drop of blood.	Image: Holy Grail with a drop of Jesus blood on it.	3	2	ケツ	ち	血 (ち)
1557	basin	Bồn	盆	basin, part, eight, sword, dagger, dish	9	38	Part . . . dish.		The part of the kitchen sink in which you wash dishes in is the basin.	I'm not an expert, but it seems that as a basin this refers more to an oceanic basin that a kitchen one, and in any case seems most common in reference to the famous O-Bon festival. So, a story: in the O-Bon festival, so many dishes are broken that all the parts have to be thrown into a deep oceanic basin.	JH	1	ボン		
1558	alliance	Minh (đồng minh)	盟	alliance, bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dish	13	38	Bright . . . dish.		In order to form alliances, you should sit down for a meal and eat until your dish is bright or clear; in other words, get to know people first, before you talk business.	"A new alliance is proclaimed at the end of a meal between officials. As a symbol of their alliance they clean up together one dish, and present it to the photographers. The clean dish under the flash lights appears very bright, and it´s pretty much all you can see on the photo that appears on the next morning´s newspapers, with the title ""New alliance, one bright dish!""."	6	1	メイ		
1559	steal	Đạo	盗	steal, next, ice, lack, yawn, dish	11	38	Next . . . dish.		You are so poor you dont know where your next dish will come from all you know is that you will have to steal it.	The first thing to steal is the silverware; next, the dishes.	JH	3	トウ	ぬす.む、ぬす.み	盗む (ぬす.む)
1560	warm	Ôn	温	warm, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, dish	12	38	Water . . . sun . . . dish.		If you leave water out in the sun in a dish, naturally it will get warm.	To distinguish from warmth (#1949), which refers to warm weather, remember that this means warm objects or feelings. Imagine a plastic kiddy pool in the backyard full of lukewarm water. The kiddy pool is shaped like a huge dish, and it's been under the sun all day - that's why the water is warm now.	3	2	オン	あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める、ぬく	温か (あたた.か), 温かい (あたた.かい), 温まる (あたた.まる), 温める (あたた.める)
1562	oversee	Giám	監	oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish	15	38	Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor/one . . . dish.		The slavetrader oversees the slaves washing dishes int he kitchen. No reclining on the floor!	"The slaves are reclining on the floor when the overseer comes in. They tell him ""We´re not goofing off, a dish fell and broke and we´re cleaning it off the floor""."	JH	1	カン		
1563	overflow	Lạm	濫	overflow, water, water droplets, water pistol, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish	18	38	Water . . . oversee.		Who´s job is it to oversee the water level on the dam? It´ts overflowing!	The overseer isn´t doing his job and he lets the slaves overflow the sink!	JH	1	ラン	みだ.りに、みだ.りがましい	
1564	specimen	Giám	鑑	specimen, metal, gold, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish	23	38	Metal . . . oversee.		The overseer tags his slaves with gold earrings, just like specimens.	(Thanks bodhisamaya) The authorities are suspicious about the athlete that won GOLD at the olympics. They are now OVERSEEING a thorough drug test, taking all sorts of SPECIMENS.	JH	1	カン	かんが.みる、かがみ	
1566	fierce	Mãnh	猛	fierce, pack of wild dogs, child, dish	11	38	Wild dogs . . . child . . . dish.		The fierce WILD DOG attacked the CHILD who came near his feeding DISH.	If you want to make your wild dogs fierce, feed them a child. Children are the holy grail of dogfood you know...	JH	1	モウ		
1567	boom	Thịnh	盛	boom, turn into, dish	11	38	Here boom refers to something that is popular and prospering. Its elements: turn into . . . dish.		Japan´s economic boom turned their empty plates into full ones.	The boom of satellite TV has made antennas turn into dishes.	6	1	セイ、ジョウ	も.る、さか.る、さか.ん	盛大 (せいだい), 隆盛 (りゅうせい), 全盛 (ぜんせい), 盛る (さか.る), 盛ん (さか.ん), 盛る (も.る)
1568	salt	Diêm	塩	salt, soil, dirt, ground, reclining, lying down, mouth, dish	13	38	Ground . . . reclining . . . mouth . . . dish.		In the old days, salt was a worth alot, so it is not surprising to find someone reclining on the ground, mouth to plate, getting every last grain of that delicious salt.	"The eccentric explorer lay down on the earth 土, opened his mouth 口, and licked it. ""As I suspected!"" he said, ""It's salt. Something to spice up our dishes 皿 with!"""	4	2	エン	しお	塩 (しお)
1569	silver	Ngân	銀	silver, metal, gold, silver	14	38	Metal . . . silver.		Like gold, silver is a metal.	Not sure why Heisig find the right side so troublesome. My grandma´s hairpin (just before long (#1920)) is made of silver, the metal that best reflects sun light. I´m sure you can see the flash from her hair as she walks by on a sunny day. Note that the two elements (sun and hairpin) share not only a horizontal stroke, but also the left vertical one. Therefore a bit odd stroke order.	3	4	ギン	しろがね	
1570	resentment	Hận	恨	regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver	9	38	State of mind . . . silver.		The athlete´s state of mind is nothing but resentment after getting the silver medal.	Data´s greatest resentment is getting a silver medal in Science Olympiad. (Image: Data fuming on the podium muttering about being half robot).	JH	1	コン	うら.む、うら.めしい	恨む (うら.む), 恨めしい (うら.めしい)
1571	root	Căn (căn cứ)	根	root, tree, wood, silver	10	38	Tree . . . silver.		Since trees eat through their roots, one could imagine roots as tree silverware.	The roots of the magical tree are silver.	3	2	コン	ね、-ね	根 (ね)
1572	instant	Tức (tức thì)	即	instant, silver, stamp	7	38	Silver . . . stamp.		He scratches off the silver stamp and discovers that he is an instant winner.	For instant postal delivery, buy a silver stamp!	JH	1	ソク	つ.く、つ.ける、すなわ.ち	
1573	baron	Tước	爵	baron, claw, vulture, net, eye, silver, glue	17	38	Vulture . . . eye . . . silver . . . glue.		The baron is very suspicious, always looking around with vulture eyes and keeping the silver glued to the table so no one can steal it.	Here we see an evil baron - a vulture perched on his shoulder, and a siver eye-patch glued to his eye.	JH	1	シャク		
1574	node	Tiết	節	node, bamboo, instant, silver, stamp	13	38	Bamboo . . . instant.		Counting the nodes on bamboo is an instant way to tell its age.	A certain species of bamboo is considered the fastest growing plant in the world. A new node can be formed in an instant.	4	1	セツ、セチ	ふし、-ぶし、のっと	節約 (せつやく), 季節 (きせつ), 関節 (かんせつ), 節 (ふし)
1575	retreat	Thoái	退	retreat, road, silver	9	38	Road . . . silver.		If you see silver on the road (eg. gun, armour, sword) => retreat!	In the land of Oz, you advance by following the golden road, but you reatreat by following the Silver Road.	5	3	タイ	しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける、ひ.く、の.く、の.ける、ど.く	退く (しりぞ.く), 退ける (しりぞ.ける)
1576	limit	Hạn	限	limit, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, silver	9	38	Pinnacle . . . silver.		He was pushed to the limit at the end of the marathon, climbing on top of the Acropolis, but had to settle for the silver medal.	At The Pinnacle, they limit how much silver you can have. Too much silver will lead to wrongfulness.	5	3	ゲン	かぎ.る、かぎ.り、-かぎ.り	限る (かぎ.る)
1577	eyeball	Nhãn	眼	eyeball, eye, silver	11	38	Eye . . . silver.		Be careful putting silverware near your eyes: you could lose an eyeball!	Eyeballs made of silver. That´s what they use to play pachinko with, isn´t it?	5	1	ガン、ゲン	まなこ、め	眼球 (がんきゅう), 眼力 (がんりき), 主眼 (しゅがん), 眼 (まなこ)
1578	good	Lương	良	good, drop, silver	7	38	Drop of . . . silver.	* As a primitive, use the image of a saint's halo. As with silver, when this element is drawn on the left, the penultimate stroke is omitted.	With a drop of silver, the forces of good can vanquish the werewolves.	A drop of silver is good, but a whole bar of it is better!	4	3	リョウ	よ.い、-よ.い、い.い、-い.い	良い (よ.い)
1579	melodious	Lãng	朗	melodious, halo, drop, silver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	10	38	Halo . . . moon.		[Image: ´Moonlight sonata´] The moon has inspired many good composers (like Ludwig van Beethoven) to write something melodious.	A glowing halo surrounds a magnificent full moon. A perfect image of the mythic and melodious music of the spheres.	6	1	ロウ	ほが.らか、あき.らか	朗らか (ほが.らか)
1580	wandering	Lãng (lãng khách)	浪	wandering, water, water droplets, water pistol, halo, drop, silver	10	38	Water . . . halo.		Water is a good thing to have when you´re out wandering.	John the Baptist with a halo sprinkling water on people as he´s wandering the wilderness.	JH	1	ロウ		
1581	daughter	Nương (nàng, con gái trẻ tuổi: nương tử, cô nương)	娘	daughter, woman, halo, drop, silver	10	38	Woman . . . halo.		Your daughter is a good girl......well, let´s hope so... :-).	Be careful not to think woman + angel here, which has already been seen for attractive (#430). Suggest using woman with a halo, as in an innocent girl, something that everyone sees their daughters as being.	JH	3	ジョウ	むすめ、こ	娘 (むすめ)
1582	eat	Thực	食	eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver	9	38	"If halo and umbrella aren't enough, break the halo down into drop and silver - or ""silverware,"" an additional primitive."	* As a primitive, this kanji can mean either eating or food. As with silver, on the left the final two strokes of this element are combined into one.	That umbrella looks good enough to eat!	Umbrella + Good: Let's go eat at that restaurant - the table with the umbrella looks good.	2	5	ショク、ジキ	く.う、く.らう、た.べる、は.む	食事 (しょくじ), 食料 (しょくりょう), 会食 (かいしょく), 食う (く.う), 食らう (く.らう), 食べる (た.べる)
1583	meal	Phạn	飯	meal, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch	12	38	Food . . . anti-.		After I eat a meal, I always have to take an anti-acid.	I´m anti-fastfood. Sit down and eat a real meal!	4	4	ハン	めし	飯 (めし)
1584	drink	Ẩm	飲	drink, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, lack, yawn	12	38	Food . . . yawn.		When you lack food, just drink something to fill you up.	My experience with Japanese enkais (dinner parties): plenty to drink drink drink, but a severe lack of food, T_T.	3	4	イン、オン	の.む、-の.み	飲む (の.む)
1585	hungry	Cơ	飢	hungry, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wind	10	38	Food . . . wind.		The smell of cooked food wafts past you in the wind, making your stomach rumble and feeling hungry.	The wind blew away my food, so now I´m hungry.	JH	1	キ	う.える	飢える (う.える)
1586	starve	Ngạ	餓	starve, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ego, hand, fiesta	15	38	Food . . . ego.		All those starving models in Hollywood - they want to eat, but their ego (about their appearance and trim look) makes sure they grin and bear it!	He starves for FOOD but his EGO won´t let him beg.	JH	1	ガ	う.える	
1587	decorate	Sức (trang sức)	飾	decorate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, reclining, lying down, towel	13	38	Food . . . reclining . . . towel.		[decorate; ornament; adorn; embellish] We decorate a table before eating, reclining a towel over it.	Naked sushi: a lady reclining on a towel as decoration for the food laid out on her.	JH	1	ショク	かざ.る、かざ.り	飾る (かざ.る)
1589	Bldg.	Quán (đại sứ quán)	館	Bldg., eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton	16	38	The abbreviation of Building suggests that this kanji is used in proper names, as indeed it often is. Keep your connotation distinct from Inst. (Frame 1401) when working with the elements: food . . . bureaucrat.		This Bldg. is like all the other government buildings - they house bureaucrats who sit around sipping wine and eating expensive meals at the taxpayers expense.	A building that eats bureaucrats!!!!!!!!	3	4	カン	やかた、たて	
1591	foster	Dưỡng	養	foster, sheep, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver	15	38	Sheep . . . food. The key word has the sense of promoting the development of something, especially in a psychological or spiritual sense.		"You foster (""promote the growth of"") your sheep well when they have food right at their feet."	"Judy Foster in ""The Silence of the Lambs"" is what Dr. Hannibal-the cannibal-Lecter would like to eat."	4	1	ヨウ、リョウ	やしな.う	養う (やしな.う)
1592	sated	Bão (bão hoà)	飽	sated, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wrap, bound up, snake, self	13	38	Eat . . . wrap.		My gluttony was only sated after I ate the hamburger AND the wrapper!	This guy is sated only after eating the hamburger AND its wrapping!	JH	1	ホウ	あ.きる、あ.かす、あ.く	飽かす (あ.かす), 飽きる (あ.きる)
1593	previously	Ký	既	previously, silver, waitress	10	38	Silver . . . waitress. Do not confuse this kanji's key word with before (Frame 263).		"Distinguish from formerly (#501). Think of previously as ""the previous customer"" in a restaurant. At a cheap sleazy diner, the waitress gives you unwashed silverware that was previously used by the previous customer. Yuck."	For the waitress primitive, I don´t really see the receipt. So instead, I imagine a waitress holding a plate above her head, using those legs to weave through the tables.	JH	1	キ	すで.に	既に (すで.に)
1594	outline	Khái (khái quát)	概	outline, roots, tree, wood, silver, waitress, previously	14	38	Roots . . . waitress. Note that the kanji meaning of the two primitives to the right is not used here because we shall later meet a primitive meaning beforehand and want to preempt any confusion. The same holds true in the following frame.		The police tried to draw a chalk outline around the dead waitress, but it was kinda tough with all the tree roots underneath her.	If you attempted to outline the biography of most famous actresses, you´d find that they have roots working as waitresses before getting their big break.	JH	1	ガイ	おうむ.ね	
1595	rue	Khái	慨	rue, regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver, waitress, previously	13	38	Resentment . . . waitress.		If you don´t leave some silver as a tip, you will rue the day you earned the resentment of your waitress.	The resentment of a waitress who gave up going to college to help her boyfriend (with his tuition). She rues that decision ever since she got dumped by him (just after he graduated).	JH	1	ガイ		
1596	even	Bình (bình đẳng)	平	even, water-lily, lily pad	5	39	This character is easiest remembered as a pictograph of a water lily floating on the surface of the water, which gives it its meaning of even. The fourth stroke represents the calm, smooth surface of a pond, and the final stroke the long stem of the plant reaching underwater.	* As a primitive, this kanji can keep its pictographic meaning of a water lily.	There´s an even covering of water lilies on the pond at 金閣寺（きんかくじ） the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto.	Frogs stay dry (#1648) 干 even as rain drops on their lily pads... RTK2:　ヘイ　　平均　へいきん(an average)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ビョウ　平等　びょうどう(equality).	3	3	ヘイ、ビョウ、ヒョウ	たい.ら、-だいら、ひら、ひら-	平面 (へいめん), 平和 (へいわ), 公平 (こうへい), 平ら (たい.ら), 平 (ひら)
1597	call	Hô	呼	call, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad, question mark	8	39	"Mouth . . . water lily. Note: this is the one time that the ""stem"" has a barb at the end. Work this fact into your story."		I'm a lazy fisher, so I genetically engineered a lily pad with a fishing hook at the stem and a mouth to call me whenever it catches something.	I´m a lazy fisher, so I genetically engineered a lily pad with a fishing hook at the stem and a mouth to call me whenever it catches something.	6	3	コ	よ.ぶ	呼ぶ (よ.ぶ)
1598	two-mat area	Bình (36 thước vuông)	坪	two-mat area, soil, dirt, ground, even, water-lily, lily pad	8	39	This kanji belongs to an old Japanese system of measurement and indicates an area of about 36 square feet, or the area taken up by two tatami mats. Its elements: ground . . . water lily.		A two-mat area is just about as much ground as you will need for a lily pond.	A two-mat area is plenty of space for sleeping in a tent but you won´t be comfortable unless the ground is even.	JH	1	ヘイ	つぼ	坪 (つぼ)
1599	evaluate	Bình (bình luận, phê bình)	評	evaluate, say, words, keitai, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad	12	39	Words . . . water lily.		Good evaluation should always be words of even fairness.	You get an evaluation copy of MS Word because you want to evaluate whether it´s worth buying the full version. At the end of the evaluation period the CD turns into a lilypad so you can´t use it any more (an innovative new copy-protection trick).	5	1	ヒョウ		
1600	reap	Ngải	刈	reap, sheaf, sword, sabre, saber	4	39	Sheaf . . . saber.		A SABRE is used to cut the stalks of plants being REAPED at harvest. They are then combined into a SHEAF.	The Grim Reaper´s name is メリ(Mary)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　Rare or no official Chinese reading.	JH	1	ガイ、カイ	か.る	刈る (か.る)
1602	hope	Hi (hi vọng)	希	hope, sheaf, linen, by one’s side, towel	7	39	Sheaf . . . linen.		I hope this works, you say as you stuff a sheaf of stalks under your blanket but above your linens. Your real hope is that your parents don´t find out that you left the house.	Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) hopes they invent linen sheets that he won´t keep shredding in his sleep.	4	2	キ、ケ	まれ	
1603	villain	Hung (hung bạo)	凶	villain, sheaf, shovel	4	39	Sheaf . . . shovel.		Here the villain digs a hole with a shovel and covers it with a sheaf, hoping someone will fall in.	Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) takes out a villain who can´t be cut by smacking the crap out of him with a shovel.	JH	1	キョウ		
1604	bosom	Hung	胸	bosom, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, bound up, villain, sheaf, shovel	10	39	Part of the body . . . bound up . . . villain.		As you know, female comics villains are always binding the flesh of their bosom up in interesting ways. One has to wonder how these clothes stay on their body at all...	As you know, female comics villains are always binding the flesh of their bosom up in interesting ways. One has to wonder how these clothes stay on their body at all...	6	2	キョウ	むね、むな-	胸 (むね)
1605	detach	Ly (ly khai)	離	detach, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow, turkey	18	39	"Top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow . . . turkey. This is potentially one of the most difficult characters to remember. Tackle it positively and let the image ""sink in"" by carrying it around with you today and calling it up in your spare moments."		I´ve finally met my arch-rival, the evilest of all villains. Finally, I´m about to fight him. But what´s this? He´s suspiciously quiet. I move to attack him, and his right arm falls off at the elbow. Strange. I walk up to him and detach his left arm. Very strange. I undo his belt, and take off his top hat... BLAST! It was just a decoy turkey!	The left side isn't too hard---a top-hatted villain whose villainy involves belts around elbows? Clearly he's a drug dealer. And the best way to detach yourself from the drug dealer's influence is to go cold turkey.	JH	1	リ	はな.れる、はな.す	離す (はな.す), 離れる (はな.れる)
1607	kill	Sát	殺	kill, sheaf, tree, wood, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	10	39	Sheaf . . . tree . . . missile.		X marks the spot on the tree where the missile hit. No doubt, it was meant to kill us.	I suppose when this kanji was made, it was most effective to kill your enemies with sheafs of wood used as missiles.	4	3	サツ、サイ、セツ	ころ.す、-ごろ.し、そ.ぐ	殺人 (さつじん), 殺到 (さっとう), 黙殺 (もくさつ), 相殺 (そうさい), 殺す (ころ.す)
1609	genuine	Thuần (thuần khiết)	純	genuine, thread, spiderman, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook	10	39	Thread . . . earthworm.		For remembering the primitive earthworm: Drops of rain were falling so I took my shovel to dig up some earthworms to put them on my fishook..... My story: To have a genuine fishing line you don't just pick up a stick but you also attach some thread onto it and at the end an earthworm must be hung.	You need to attach a genuine earthworm to the thread. With plastic bait you won´t catch anything.	6	2	ジュン		
1611	dull	Độn	鈍	dull, metal, gold, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook	12	39	Metal . . . earthworm.		The metal hook is too dull to even pierce an earthworm....	From the earthworm´s perspective, it most be pretty dull when you are put in a metal bowl, just waiting for being put on the hook on the fishing trip the next day.	JH	2	ドン	にぶ.い、にぶ.る、にぶ-、なま.る、なまく.ら	鈍い (にぶ.い), 鈍る (にぶ.る)
1612	spicy	Tân	辛	spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle	7	39	This character pictures food whose taste is so hot and spicy that it makes the hairs on your body stand up as straight as needles.	* As a primitive, we shall use this meaning of spicy, except when the two extra strokes are added to the bottom, giving it the form of a tree. Then we take its alternate meaning of a red pepper plant. The connection is obvious.	Eating spicy food makes you stand up ten times faster than usual, ´cause you just need to get something to drink!	Eating spicy food makes you stand up as if you had sat on a needle.	JH	2	シン	から.い、つら.い、-づら.い、かのと	辛い (から.い)
1613	resign	Từ	辞	resign, tongue, thousand, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle	13	39	Tongue . . . spicy.		This guy´s job is tasting the spicy curry at the local Indian Food Factory. He has to resign from his job before his tongue is rendered completely useless after all the spicy food that he has to try all day long...	After my tongue touched the most spicy pepper of all, I had to resign from the contest...too hot for me!	4	3	ジ	や.める、いな.む	辞める (や.める)
1614	catalpa	Tử (cây tử, làm đồ gỗ)	梓	catalpa, tree, wood, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle	11	39	Tree . . . spicy.		"The CATALPA is the tree that bears the SPICY Indian bean (NOTE - The Catalpa is also known as the ""Indian Bean"" due to the bean pods that grow from it)."	The caterpillar´s favorite tree is the catalpa because it tastes spicy.	Names	1	シ	あずさ	
1615	superintend	Tể (đứng đầu coi một việc gì)	宰	superintend, house, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle	10	39	House . . . spicy.		The superintendent of a Japanese school district needs a spicy relationship at home after watching girls in miniskirts all day.	The superintendent of an old-age house has to make sure the food is never too spicy.	JH	1	サイ		
1616	wall	Bích	壁	wall, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, soil, dirt, ground	16	39	Ketchup . . . ground.		Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall?	Primitive for Ketchup: When the taste is too spicy your mouth has basically given up trying to handle it ..or in other words raised the white flag of surrender. But unlike war , putting Ketchup on it will usually solve the problem. Wall(dingomick); Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall?	JH	1	ヘキ	かべ	壁 (かべ)
1618	evade	Tị (tị nạn)	避	evade, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, road	16	39	Ketchup . . . road.		You can try and evade them, but they´ll ketchup with you on the road... Sorry, couldn´t resist it.	In order to evade the bear, you lie down on the road, put ketchup on yourself, and play dead.	JH	1	ヒ	さ.ける、よ.ける	避ける (さ.ける)
1619	new	Tân	新	new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe	13	39	Red pepper . . . ax.		"(I don't like the 'red pepper plant' primative so I just go for standing atop a tree). Here we have the woodcutter standing atop a tree waving his brand new axe. ""Look what I got for christmas, yippee!"""	Axe-man grows a patch of red pepper plants in his back garden. He rubs red peppers on the edge of his axes, and this seems to keep them sharp like brand new.	2	4	シン	あたら.しい、あら.た、あら-、にい-	新しい (あたら.しい), 新た (あら.た), 新 (にい)
1620	firewood	Tân	薪	fuel, firewood, flowers, new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe	16	39	Flowers . . . new.		If your firewood is too new and still has flowers on it, it's unsuitable for burning. You need drier wood.	If your firewood is too new and still has flowers on it, it´s unsuitable for burning. You need drier wood.	JH	1	シン	たきぎ、まき	薪 (たきぎ)
1621	parent	Thân	親	parent, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, see, telescope, eye, human legs	16	39	Red pepper . . . see.		I remember this one the way the Japanese do: a parent standing on top of a tree watching what his or her kid is doing.	"A wise parent lets their kids learn. A kid wants to try to eat the red pepper plant, the wise parent says ""Try it and see for yourself""."	2	4	シン	おや、おや-、した.しい、した.しむ	親 (おや), 親しい (した.しい), 親しむ (した.しむ)
1622	happiness	Hạnh	幸	happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten, needle, ten2, needle2	8	39	Simply by turning the dot at the top of the primitive for spicy into a cross shape, we move from things bitter and spicy to things happy.		Happiness adds a bit (or ten) of spice to your life.	This is one of those rare occasions when I forgo Heisig for other methods. 「幸せから一本取ると辛い」 -- if you take but one stroke away from happiness, you get painfulness. (oh well, Heisig used similar one for 百).	3	3	コウ	さいわ.い、さち、しあわ.せ	幸い (さいわ.い), 幸 (さち), 幸せ (しあわ.せ)
1623	tenacious	Chấp (siết chặt, bám chặt)	執	tenacious, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, fat man, musashimaru, nine, baseball, drop, ten2, needle2	11	39	Happiness . . . fat man.		To be tenacious, you need to have deep stores of happiness (so troubles don't discourage you) and you need to be big and round (so hunger doesn't drive you to give up). The most tenacious person of all time was happy round Buddha!	Tenacious-D is happy band led by a fat man. (It´s Tenacious-D time, ya muthafucka´, gwaoh!).	JH	1	シツ、シュウ	と.る	執務 (しつむ), 執筆 (しっぴつ), 確執 (かくしつ), 執る (と.る)
1625	report	Báo	報	report, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, underpants, stamp, crotch, ten2, needle2	12	39	Happiness . . . stamp . . . crotch. Compare frame 1501.		Recall the fashion model wearing just a stamp over his crotch (clothing (#1399)). When he got happy, of course, it ended up in the news report.	The long awaited report, 'Maximising Male Happiness In The Workplace' concluded that making bikinis, with only a stamp sized piece of cloth covering the crotch, compulsory for attractive female staff, was the most cost-effective means of achieving this aim.	5	3	ホウ	むく.いる	報いる (むく.いる)
1626	shout	Khiếu	叫	shout, mouth, cornucopia	6	39	Mouth . . . cornucopia.		There was a man in a village who had a special gift : whenever he shouted and screamed, his mouth became a cornucopia, overflowing with fruits and food of all sorts. Many of the locals thought he was a cruel man, always screaming at his wife, until they realised he was in fact very kind, and his gift brought prosperity to his family.	You can hold a CORNUCOPIA up to your MOUTH (like a megaphone) to SHOUT lounder. Also notice that the shape of CORNUCOPIA implies the shouts are 4 letter words.	JH	2	キョウ	さけ.ぶ	叫ぶ (さけ.ぶ)
1627	twist	Củ	糾	twist, thread, spiderman, cornucopia	9	39	Thread . . . cornucopia.		A Pepsi promotion where you twist off the cap to find pictures of your favorite heroes like Spider-Man or members of the Fantastic Four.	[twist; ask; investigate; verify] Stories full of twists are difficult to write, because of the cornucopia of threads the author has to manage.	JH	1	キュウ	ただ.す	
1628	income	Thu	収	income, cornucopia, crotch	4	39	Cornucopia . . . crotch. Keep distinct from both fare (Frame 1079) and salary (Frame 1449).		"Prostitutes can make a veritable cornucopia of income by using their crotches -- they put the ""come"" in ""income."" (A bit lewd perhaps, but effective in keeping this character distinct from similar keywords like profit (#906) or earnings (#893))."	Women love men with money. If you have a high income you can get a cornicopia of crotches.	6	3	シュウ	おさ.める、おさ.まる	収まる (おさ.まる), 収める (おさ.める)
1629	lowly	Ty, ti (tự ti, ti tiện)	卑	lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle	9	39	A drop of . . . brains . . . cornucopia.		A LOWLY single rice grain, DROPPED in an empty FIELD, can produce a CORNUCOPIA of food.	Lowly people only have a drop of brains and use nothing but 4-letter words.	JH	1	ヒ	いや.しい、いや.しむ、いや.しめる	卑しい (いや.しい), 卑しむ (いや.しむ), 卑しめる (いや.しめる)
1630	tombstone	Bi	碑	tombstone, stone, rock, lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle	14	39	Rock . . . lowly.		There is a grave of a lowly man with a tombstone made of a simple, small stone. If you bow really low you can read the very small inscription engraved on the stone, it says - “Now that you bowed so low to read this, you are as lowly as I once was”.	A STONE makes a LOWLY TOMBSTONE.	JH	1	ヒ	いしぶみ	
1631	land	Lục (đồng bằng cao ráo, đất liền)	陸	land, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2	11	39	"The sense of land carried by this kanji is distinct from soil (Frame 161) and ground (Frame 554) in that it is meant to represent land seen from a distance, that is, land as opposed to ""water."" Its elements: pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . ground."		My rice-seedlings have become sentient and will go on a mission. I can only apologise for the next 6 frames. In the distance, there is a pinnacle, which the newly-awakened rice-seedlings who are still stuck in the ground can see. Could it be the Promised Land?	When sailors see land in the distance, they first see the pinnacles of the new land, but when they come close enough they´ll be able to make out the rice seedlings, and finally the ground!	4	2	リク、ロク	おか	
1632	intimate	Mục	睦	intimate, eye, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2	13	39	Eye . . . rice seedlings . . . ground.		I keep an intimate relationship with my rice seedlings -- I never take my eye from the soil.	The farmer was never very intimate with his wife. He always kept his eye on his precious rice seedlings in the soil.	JH	1	ボク、モク	むつ.まじい、むつ.む、むつ.ぶ	
1633	forces	Thế (thế lực)	勢	forces, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, power, muscle, arnold, soil2, dirt2, ground2	13	39	Rice seedlings . . ground . . . fat man . . . muscle.		What power makes rice seedlings in the ground grow into well rounded plants? The forces of nature.	The forces of nature need to be just right for the rice seedlings in the ground to become fat and strong.	5	2	セイ、ゼイ	いきお.い、はずみ	勢い (いきお.い)
1634	heat	Nhiệt	熱	heat, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, soil2, dirt2, ground2	15	39	Rice seedlings . . . ground . . . fat man . . . oven fire.		"Heat up those RICE SEEDLINGS you pulled from the SOIL in a ROUND pan over a low FLAME. (Note: the hot pan image helps reinforce the idea that this kanji for ""atsui"" refers to something hot to the touch, as opposed to hot weather)."	"Just a comment on Erikkusan's story: Although one of the pronunciations of this kanji is ""atsui"" this isn't the atsui that you feel in Tokyo in August, (which is Frame 1260's ""sultry' 暑). This atsui is the one when you touch something hot, like a fry pan. Another reading of this is ""netsu,"" which is the ""fever"" this fat man may feel after planting the rice seedlings."	4	3	ネツ	あつ.い	熱い (あつ.い)
1635	diamond	Lăng	菱	diamond, flowers, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs	11	39	Named after a diamond-shaped flower (the water caltrop), this key word refers to things shaped like a diamond. Its elements: flower . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs.		Some girls want diamonds, but others will be satisfied with just flowers. However if you think you can win her over with rice seedlings, expect her to get up on her walking legs and walk on out!	Not a real diamond but a baseball one. No proper bases so we improvise, 1st is a bunch of flowers, 2nd is the pile of rice seedlings and so on... watch the running legs charge around after a big hit!	Names		リョウ	ひし	
1636	mausoleum	Lăng (lăng tẩm)	陵	mausoleum, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs	11	39	Pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs.		陸 (#1513) However, the pinnacle that the rice-seedlings finally reach with the use of their walking legs turns out not to be the Promised Land after all, but simply a mausoleum (containing many dead rice-seedlings exhausted from previous quests?). Oh no!	At the pinnicle is a mausolem. The ground is sown with rice seedings to stop the dead from rising on walking legs.	JH	1	リョウ	みささぎ	陵 (みささぎ)
1637	sign of the hog	Hợi (Chi thứ 12, heo)	亥	sign of the hog, acorn, top hat	6	39	This kanji is the 12th sign of the Chinese zodiac: the sign of the hog. It is best learned by thinking of an acorn-eating hog in connection with the primitive meaning given below.	* The top hat represents the external shape of the acorn, and the unusual but easily written complex of strokes beneath it (which you might also see as distortions of an elbow and person) stands for the mysterious secret whereby the acorn contains the oak tree in a nutshell.	A greedy hog in a top hat who has eaten all of the acorns. He even elbows people out of the way to get them.	Top Hat + Elbow + Person: The sign of the hog was a very recognizable tattoo - a hog with a big grin in a top hat, sticking his elbow into the person next to him.	Names	1	ガイ、カイ	い	
1638	nucleus	Hạch	核	nucleus, tree, wood, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat	10	39	Tree . . . acorn.		In the nucleus of the acorn, all the DNA is stored -- the building blocks for a new tree.	The nucleus of an oak TREE is an ACORN.	JH	1	カク		
1639	engrave	Khắc	刻	engrave, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, sword, sabre, saber	8	39	Acorn . . . saber.		This famous ninja (I always use ninjas with sabres, distinct from samurai) used to engrave the kanji for his name onto acorns, and throw the acorns to distract his enemies. The legend goes that by the time his victims would pick up the acorn and read the engraved kanji, they were already dead.	While it´s traditional for lovers to engrave their names on a tree in many countries, in Japan, however, it was traditional for a samurai to signify his undying love for a woman by engraving the kanji of her name on an acorn with his sabre.	6	3	コク	きざ.む、きざ.み	刻む (きざ.む)
1640	above-stated	Cai	該	above-stated, say, words, keitai, mouth, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat	13	39	Words . . . acorn.		I asked my teacher what this strange word meant, and she furiously replied that it was explained in the above-stated paragraph before throwing an acorn at me!	The above-stated words are the acorn from which the following statement grows.	JH	1	ガイ		
1642	censure	Hặc	劾	censure, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, power, muscle, arnold	8	39	Acorn . . . muscle.		Acorn Power is the people's way to CENSURE a congressman you don't agree with. Pelt your Senator with acorns today.	Acorn Power is the people´s way to CENSURE a congressman you don´t agree with. Pelt your Senator with acorns today.	JH	1	ガイ		
1643	mention	Thuật (tường thuật)	述	mention, resin, pole, road	8	39	Resin . . . road.		Why are the roads leading through the woods so sticky and dirty? Hmm... I think the forest ranger mentioned something about excess resin on the roads...	No-body mentioned that there was resin on the road. Now I´m stuck!	5	2	ジュツ	の.べる	述べる (の.べる)
1644	art	Thuật	術	art, boulevard, going, resin, pole	11	39	Boulevard . . . resin.		"Behold the ""Boulev´Art"" : a life-size section of a boulevard cast in a huge block of resin. Some call it ... art."	The definition of art is getting more and more loose these days. Why even some resin spilled onto the boulevard is now counted as art! Hmmph!	5	3	ジュツ	すべ	
1645	cold	Hàn	寒	cold, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, ice	12	39	House . . . celery . . . animal legs . . . ice.		Don't mix up with cool (#1404), when the cool boys order each other around. This kind of cold has to do with weather. When its cold outside, I stay at home and have hot celery soup with chicken legs to keep out the ice. 寒い　＝　さむい　＝cold.	Some strange animal tried to steal a stalk of celery from my house. However, it was freezing and the floor was covered in ice, so the mysterious animal couldn´t get any traction. Picture a stalk of celery and a pair of animal legs slipping and sliding clumsily around the ice, and never able to leave the house. Eventually it got so cold that the little animal froze to death.	3	3	カン	さむ.い	寒い (さむ.い)
1647	brew	Nhưỡng	醸	brew, whiskey bottle, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf	20	39	Whiskey bottle . . . grass skirt.		On the troical island of JOU, they brew whiskey while wearing grass skirts (top hats and scarves too). (Image: the strangely dresses islanders stirring a pot of brew. Careful 酵 (#1538)).	A classic alcohol commercial: whiskey being brewed while girls dance around, scantily clad in their grass skirts.	JH	1	ジョウ	かも.す	醸す (かも.す)
1648	defer	Nhượng (nhượng bộ, chuyển nhượng)	譲	defer, say, words, keitai, mouth, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf	20	39	Words . . . grass skirt.		The islanders defer to the words of their chief Jou in his grass skirt.	"I talked to my Japanese spouse, who confirmed that this kanji does not mean ""defer"" as in ""put off, delay"". It means ""defer"" in the sense of ""submit"" or ""yield""."	JH	1	ジョウ	ゆず.る	譲る (ゆず.る)
1649	lot	Nhưỡng (thổ nhưỡng, đất trồng trọt, đất mềm)	壌	lot, soil, dirt, ground, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf	16	39	Ground . . . grass skirt. The lot of this key word refers to a portion of land.		My dream is to buy a small lot on a tropical island and spend the rest of my days relaxing in a grass skirt.	On the island of JOU, in order to be considered a lot, a ground must be big enough to grow sufficient grass for a grass skirt.	JH	1	ジョウ	つち	
1650	lass	Nương	嬢	lass, woman, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf	16	39	Woman . . . grass skirt.		"Conversation at a party: A: ""Who is that lass?"" B: ""Which one?"" A: ""The woman wearing the grass skirt."" B: ""Alas, I don´t know""."	"Two Irishmen visit Hawaii and see a woman wearing a grass skirt and nothing else. ""That´s some lassie,"" says one to the other. ""But alass Danny Boy, you can´t be bringing her home.""."	JH	1	ジョウ	むすめ	
1651	poison	Độc	毒	poison, grow up, mother, breasts	8	40	Grow up . . . breasts.		If you grow up with a mother that drinks and smokes, you can be sure it´s poison in the stuff you get from her breasts.	"You can use silicone implants to to make your breasts ""grow up"" but if they leak, it's poison."	4	2	ドク		
1652	elementary	Tố (yếu tố, nguyên tố)	素	elementary, grow up, thread, spiderman	10	40	Grow up . . . thread.		This kanji has nothing to do with elementary school - it means element, elemental, basic, bare. Imagine the thread as a thread connecting all life, starting from the basic elements and growing up into everything.	This is a pictogram of string theory. Strings are the most elementary particles of matter, which then grow up to become matter itself.	5	1	ソ、ス	もと	素材 (そざい), 元素 (げんそ), 平素 (へいそ)
1653	barley	Mạch	麦	barley, grow up, walking legs	7	40	Grow up . . . walking legs.		BARLEY beverages give GROWN UPs teetering WALKING LEGS.	"""Grown up"" barley, i.e. beer, is what gets you tottering legs."	2	2	バク	むぎ	麦 (むぎ)
1654	blue	Thanh (thanh thiên)	青	blue, grow up, moon, flesh	8	40	Grow up . . . moon.		"""Once in a blue moon"" refers to a rare event. But originally ""blue moon"" refers to a full moon, in other words a fully grown-up moon. Whether once a month is rare or not depends on what we're talking about, but that happens to be the origin of the expression."	The last time I saw a blue moon was in my youth when I was growing up.	1	4	セイ、ショウ	あお、あお-、あお.い	青天 (せいてん), 青銅 (せいどう), 青年 (せいねん), 青 (あお), 青い (あお.い)
1655	refined	Tinh	精	refined, rice, blue, grow up, moon, flesh	14	40	Rice . . . blue.		Before rice is refined, it is actually blue...bet ya didn't know that!! (alternate....Condi Rice was blue when insurgents blew up the iraqi refinery where oil is refined).	Very refined people in the upper classes have skin as pale as rice and blue blood.	5	3	セイ、ショウ、シヤウ		精米 (せいまい), 精密 (せいみつ), 精力 (せいりょく)
1656	solicit	Thỉnh	請	solicit, say, words, keitai, mouth, blue, grow up, moon, flesh	15	40	Words . . . blue.		"That door-to-door salesman can stand outside ringing my doorbell until he's blue in the face. There's a big sign on my front door, and the words clearly say ""No Soliciting""."	"That door-to-door salesman can stand outside ringing my doorbell until he´s blue in the face. There´s a big sign on my front door, and the words clearly say ""No Soliciting""."	JH	1	セイ、シン、ショウ	こ.う、う.ける	請求 (せいきゅう), 請願 (せいがん), 申請 (しんせい), 請ける (う.ける), 請う (こ.う)
1657	feelings	Tình (tình cảm)	情	feelings, Freud, state of mind, blue, grow up, moon, flesh	11	40	State of mind . . . blue. Do not confuse with emotion (Frame 662).		Feeling blue is a state of mind where you´re dominated by your feelings.	Data is feeling blue about not having any feelings ... hey, wait a minute.	5	3	ジョウ、セイ	なさ.け	情報 (じょうほう), 情熱 (じょうねつ), 人情 (にんじょう), 情け (なさ.け)
1658	clear up	Tình (trong xanh, tạnh, lúc không mưa gọi là tình)	晴	clear up, sun, day, blue, grow up, moon, flesh	12	40	Take the key word in its associations with the weather (unless that tempts you to include the primitive for weather, which doesn't belong here). Its elements: sun . . . blue.		Sun and blue sky! Yep, the weather´s cleared up!	When we speak of clearing up we easily think of both the sun and blue skies. But in another since to clear up is the absence of weather. And therefor the reason weather has no place in its writing.	2	3	セイ	は.れる、は.れ、は.れ-、-ば.れ、は.らす	晴らす (は.らす), 晴れる (は.れる)
1659	pure	Thanh (thanh bạch, trong sạch)	清	pure, water, water droplets, water pistol, blue, grow up, moon, flesh	11	40	Water . . . blue.		Pure sea water is always a radiant blue.	Bottles of water claim to be pure. They´re generally in blue containers, because blue makes you feel like its that much more pure.	4	2	セイ、ショウ、シン	きよ.い、きよ.まる、きよ.める	清潔 (せいけつ), 清算 (せいさん), 粛清 (しゅくせい), 清い (きよ.い), 清まる (きよ.まる), 清める (きよ.める)
1660	quiet	Tĩnh	静	quiet, blue, grow up, moon, flesh, contend, bound up, rake	14	40	Blue . . . contend. Do not confuse with calm (Frame 1230).		When someone you know who is normally talkative goes quiet, it´s usually a sign that they are contending with the blues.	Don't confuse with silence (#240), something achieved through action. On the other hand, quiet refers to a personal quality of not speaking out. Members of Blue-man group jump into the wrestling ring of contenders for tag-team wrestling. Though the other contenders are screaming, the blue men never say anything - they are a very quiet bunch, that Blue-man group. Primitive order: blue man group's first and main characteristic is being blue and quiet; only later did they decide to become wrestling contenders.	4	3	セイ、ジョウ	しず-、しず.か、しず.まる、しず.める	静止 (せいし), 静穏 (せいおん), 安静 (あんせい), 静 (しず), 静か (しず.か), 静まる (しず.まる), 静める (しず.める)
1661	blame	Trách	責	blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	40	Grow up . . . oyster.		As one grows up, one typically starts to blame all of their problems on money.	This is the story of a poor fisherman and his wife. A long time ago he caught an oyster with a small but precious pearl. The intelligent wife told him to sell the pearl immediately: the greedy husband figured if he kept the oyster and fed it, it would grow up and yield an even bigger pearl. One day the oyster grew so big, it crashed through the house and escaped back to sea. The angry wife left her husband, blaming his blind greed for their poverty.	5	3	セキ	せ.める	責める (せ.める)
1662	exploits	Tích (thành tích)	績	exploits, thread, spiderman, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	17	40	Thread . . . blame.		Spidey´s exploits are world famous but still The Daily Bugle´s pages blame him for every problem out there.	[Geek alert] A lot of modern software is full of exploits which can be abused by hackers. I blame multi-threading.	5	2	セキ		
1663	volume	Tích (tích phân, tích tụ)	積	volume, wheat, cereal, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	16	40	Wheat . . . blame. This key word has to do with measurement, and should be kept distinct from the kanji for quantity (Frame 189) - even though the meanings are similar.		"On many wheat cereal boxes, there is a disclaimer stating that ""This package is sold by weight, not by volume. Some settling of contents may have occurred."" well they only say that because they don´t want to be blamed by people getting really disappointed after they see what a small volume of cereal the box really contains."	The volume of the wheat crop is way down this year! Blame the weather!	4	3	セキ	つ.む、-づ.み、つ.もる、つ.もり	積む (つ.む), 積もる (つ.もる)
1664	bond	Trái (nợ, quốc trái, công trái)	債	bond, person, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	40	Person . . . blame. The key word refers to financial bonds.		[Bond; loan; debt] Mr. T buys a lot of high risk bonds and then blames his broker when they all plummet in value.	Bonds are guarnteed by the government so if they fail there is one person you can blame - the prime minister!	JH	1	サイ		
1665	pickling	Tý (ngâm, tẩm thấm)	漬	pickling, water, water droplets, water pistol, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	14	40	Water . . . blame.		When pickling you MUST use distilled water! When it doesn´t come out right, generally it is the water that is to blame.	Bad water is to blame for the process of pickling.	JH	1	シ	つ.ける、つ.かる、-づ.け、-づけ	漬かる (つ.かる), 漬ける (つ.ける)
1666	surface	Biểu (biểu hiện)	表	surface, grow up, scarf	8	40	"Grow up . . . rags. This character represents the ""outside"" of a garment, just as the kanji for back (Frame 426) depicted the ""inside"" or lining."		When I was GROWING UP, the SURFACE of my SCARF was always covered with snot from blowing my nose on it.	(Thanks to zerOrange) I grew up underground, and whenever I went to the surface I wore a scarf to avoid scrutiny.	3	3	ヒョウ	おもて、-おもて、あらわ.す、あらわ.れる、あら.わす	表す (あらわ.す), 表れる (あらわ.れる), 表 (おもて)
1667	bag	Biếu	俵	bag, person, surface, grow up, scarf	10	40	Keep this kanji distinct from that for sack (Frame 1081). Its elements are: person . . . surface.		Superficial people (ie those who are only concerned about the surface) are obsessed with expensive bags.	Do you know why every person in Japan has a Louis Vuitton bag? After the 1985 JAL air crash that killed 520 people (the world´s worst). An image on tv of the crash showed Louis Vuitton bags (whose LV logo covered surface was somehow impervious) litering the crash site. From that point on they stuck in Japanese people´s mind´s as durable and high quality. (True story).	5	1	ヒョウ	たわら	俵 (たわら)
1668	undefiled	Khiết	潔	undefiled, water, water droplets, water pistol, flick knife, grow up, sword, dagger, thread, spiderman	15	40	Water . . . grow up . . . dagger . . . thread. Do not confuse with upright (Frame 58).		To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her threads, even when she went into the water.	(rgravina) To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her Spiderman underwear (to remember the position of thread), even when she went into the water.	5	1	ケツ	いさぎよ.い	潔い (いさぎよ.い)
1669	pledge	Khế	契	pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard	9	40	Grow up . . . dagger . . . St. Bernard dog. The connotation of this character should be kept distinct from that for vow (Frame 1214) and promise (Frame 1462).		Imagine a totalitarian regime where, while growing up, you have to pledge allegiance to the flag at dagger-point and with St. Bernard guard dogs watching you.	In order to pledge into her sorority, Alice had to stab a St. Bernard with a dagger. (Come on! DO it, Alice!).	JH	1	ケイ	ちぎ.る	契る (ちぎ.る)
1670	CONSUME	Khiết	喫	consume, mouth, pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard	12	40	Mouth . . . pledge.		This means eat/drink/smoke. Maybe you make a pledge to stop gutsing/binging/puffing, but your own mouth is tempting you to put something in it.	I make my mouth pledge to consume less.	JH	2	キツ		
1671	harm	Hại	害	harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth	10	40	House . . . grow up . . . mouth.		With kids growing up in your house, you have to keep them from harm of putting anything in their mouth, paint chips, bleach, knvies, etc.	This is silly, but.. If a house suddenly grows up from your mouth, you will come to great harm.	4	3	ガイ		
1672	control	Hạt	轄	control, car, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth	17	40	"Car . . . harm. Hint: the image of an auto going ""out of control"" may help keep this key word distinct from others like it, such as manipulate (Frame 864)."		Control is very important! Especially when operating a car. Few people realize the harm they can cause just by losing control of their car for a second. Tremendous harm. Stay in control!	The roads are icy, and a whole bunch of cars have spun out of control! Luckily, it was just a couple of dents; nobody was harmed.	JH	1	カツ	くさび	
1673	proportion	Cát	割	proportion, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber	12	40	Harm . . . saber.		[proportion; comparatively; divide; cut; separate; split] Hey, don´t take this out of proportion! I did you just a little harm, no need to come over here with a saber...	As shown on this pie-chart, the proportion of people harmed by sabres is relatively a small slice compared to those harmed by guns.	6	3	カツ	わ.る、わり、わ.り、わ.れる、さ.く	割く (さ.く), 割る (わ.る), 割れる (わ.れる), 割 (わり)
1674	constitution	Hiến (hiến pháp, hiến binh)	憲	constitution, mansion, house, grow up, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart	16	40	The key word refers to the fundamental guiding principles of a government or other organization. Its elements: House . . . grow up . . . eyes . . . heart.		The constitution is important. At least my parents thought so. In the house where I grew up, it was framed on the wall. Under the watchful (sideways) eye of my mother, we had to study it until we knew it by heart.	The constitution states the following rights: You may live in your own house and grow up. And you will never be watched by big brother's eye so they cannot control your heart (your believes).	6	1	ケン		
1675	life	Sinh	生	life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	5	40	A single drop added to the element for grow up gives us the character for life.	* As a primitive, we may think of a microscopic cell, that miraculous unit that grows up to become a living being.	This is the first CELL of a human, the foundation of its entire LIFE, a small DROP that will GROW UP to form a complex organism.	Growing Up is just a Drop of our LIFE.	1	5	セイ、ショウ	い.きる、い.かす、い.ける、う.まれる、う.まれ、うまれ、う.む、お.う、は.える、は.やす、き、なま、なま-、な.る、な.す、む.す、-う	生活 (せいかつ), 発生 (はっせい), 先生 (せんせい), 生かす (い.かす), 生きる (い.きる), 生ける (い.ける), 生まれる (う.まれる), 生む (う.む), 生う (お.う), 生 (き), 生 (なま), 生える (は.える), 生やす (は.やす)
1676	star	Tinh	星	star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	9	40	Sun . . . cell.		The sun is the nearest star to the only planet with life - Earth.	Sun is a star that has given life. Can´t say that of any other stars yet.	2	2	セイ、ショウ	ほし、-ぼし	星座 (せいざ), 流星 (りゅうせい), 衛星 (えいせい), 星 (ほし)
1678	surname	Tính, tánh	姓	surname, woman, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	8	40	Woman . . . cell.		When women marry, they adopt the surname of their husband, signifiying the start of a new life together. (adapted from gorgon).	"Woman change their surname when they ""start their new life""."	JH	2	セイ、ショウ		姓名 (せいめい), 改姓 (かいせい), 同姓 (どうせい)
1679	sex	Tính, tánh	性	sex, Freud, state of mind, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	8	40	State of mind . . . cell.		Sex is the only state of mind for many men through their whole life.	When you´re in the state of mind for creating new lives.	5	3	セイ、ショウ	さが	性質 (せいしつ), 理性 (りせい), 男性 (だんせい)
1680	animal sacrifice	Sinh	牲	animal sacrifice, cow, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	9	40	Cow . . . cell.		Animal sacrifice = taking the life of a cow.	In the 21st century, animal sacrifice is no longer really necessary. We can take a single cell from a cow, with no harm to the cow. We create a viable cell line from this single cell, and feed the resulting biomatter into a furnace at the exact rate necessary to appease the gods.	JH	1	セイ		
1681	products	Sản	産	products, vase, stand up, cliff, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	11	40	Vase . . . cliff . . . cell.		If you were to stand up all the products you have accumulated over the course of your entire life on top of one another, the result would probably be as tall as a cliff.	"The salesman is standing on the cliff´s edge. ""Buy my products!! Buy my products! Or else I´ll take my own life""! Man, that´s selling on pressure."	4	3	サン	う.む、う.まれる、うぶ-、む.す	産まれる (う.まれる), 産む (う.む), 産 (うぶ)
1682	hump	Long	隆	hump, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	11	40	"This character, used for everything from little humps of hills to camel humps, easily suggests the hunch on the pig's back and hind parts where the best cuts of meat are to be found (and hence the English expression for luxury, ""living high off the hog."") The elements we have to work with are: pinnacle . . . walking legs . . . cell."		You are struggling to the top across the humps, but you suddenly see the pinnacle and you feel new life in your walking legs.	A woman takes her bra off and what happens? Nine months later the hump in her belly pops out between her legs as a new life.	JH	1	リュウ		
1683	summit	Phong	峰	summit, mountain, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes	10	40	Mountain . . . walking legs . . . bushes.		"Walking legs over ""bushes"" needs to have a primitive meaning of its own. It appears in several kanji, such as 縫 sew (#1563), 逢 tryst (#2417), 蜂 bee (#2687), and 鋒 sword´s point (#2768), and it is clumsy to work bushes and walking legs into every story. ""Pointy"" works fairly well: the walking legs are stuck on top of the pointy part of the bush; and for this character: a summit is the pointy end of a mountain."	Upon reaching the summit of the mountain, I noticed my walking legs were all gouged up from walking through prickly bushes.	JH	1	ホウ	みね、ね	峰 (みね)
1685	sew	Phùng	縫	sew, thread, spiderman, tryst, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes, road	16	40	Thread . . . walking legs . . . bushes . . . road.		Pointy primitive; with a pointy needle you sew a road (-------) of threads.	Good thing I brought some thread, cause I need to sew my pants that I tore up walking through the bushes (see summit (#1562)) before we hit the road to go back down the mountain.	JH	1	ホウ	ぬ.う	縫う (ぬ.う)
1686	worship	Bái (sùng bái)	拝	worship, finger, fingers, one, ceiling, bushes	8	40	Fingers . . . bush . . . suspended from the ceiling.		I put my fingers together in worship of the bush that hangs from the ceiling -- that wonderful mistletoe which has gotten me kissed by many a girl.	Because I worship her, I only finger ONE BUSH, her´s, and no others!	6	2	ハイ	おが.む、おろが.む	拝む (おが.む)
1687	longevity	Thọ	寿	longevity, bushes, glue	7	40	Bushes . . . glue.		This old China man glued shrubs to his body. The added intake of oxygen from the shrubs was, according to him, the secret of his longevity. Sometimes he would sit all day in meditation without moving, and the locals believed the old man had actually turned into a shrub !	In an attempt to increase a bush's longevity, an incompitent gardener glues all the leaves back on that have fallen off. Maybe he should have tried watering it instead.	JH		ジュ、ス、シュウ	ことぶき、ことぶ.く、ことほ.ぐ	寿 (ことぶき)
1688	casting	Chú	鋳	casting, metal, gold, longevity, bushes, glue	15	40	Metal . . . longevity. As you probably guessed from the elements, the key word refers to the casting of metals.		They made a metal casting of the Chinese man who glued shrubs to himself to increase his longevity. It's now sold around the world as it's thought that having one will increase your own longevity.	We take a casting because metal will have much greater longevity than the original.	JH	1	チュウ、イ、シュ、シュウ	い.る	鋳る (い.る)
1689	enroll	Tịch (sách vở, sách để ghi chép)	籍	enroll, bamboo, christmas tree, wood, once upon a time, storyteller	20	40	Bamboo . . . Christmas tree . . . once upon a time.		Once upon a time, in order to enroll in a Christian school you had to answer a series of questions to ensure that you were really Christian. For example, the principal might show you a picture of a Christmas tree and a picture of some bamboo and ask you which one is most suitable for decoration at Christmas time.	Japanese father enrolls his student in a well-rounded school: they teach eastern traditions (the way of the bamboo), western traditions (like Christmas trees), and also teach literature (once upon a time).	JH	2	セキ		
1690	springtime	Xuân	春	springtime, bonsai, sun, day	9	40	Bonsai . . . sun.		In the springtime bonsai get plenty of sun.	When it´s springtime you can only leave the bonsai out when the sun has gone down. Their little leaves can´t handle too much heat.	2	4	シュン	はる	春 (はる)
1691	camellia	Xuân, thung	椿	camellia, tree, wood, springtime, bonsai, sun, day	13	40	Tree . . . springtime.		The tree of spring. Fact: Camellia are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter [early spring?].	Anyone who´s lived in Japan knows camellia are by far the first tree of spring to flower. And how can you miss those shockingly pink flowers!	Names	1	チン、チュン	つばき	
1692	peaceful	Thái	泰	peaceful, bonsai, grains of rice	10	40	Bonsai . . . rice grains.		If you look into Japanese gardens they seem so peaceful - with their small bonsais and the white stones looking like rice grains.	Simplistic and peaceful life: A bonsai to trim and enough rice to eat...　RTK2:　タイ　泰国　たいこく (Thailand).	JH	1	タイ		
1693	play music	Tấu	奏	play music, bonsai, heavens	9	40	Bonsai . . . heavens.		When you play music to them, your bonsai will grow like they are in heaven.	In heaven you are surrounded by bonsai trees (full-sized ones fall through the clouds) while you play music on your harp. I always have trouble remembering that the bonsai tree is on top, so think of them growing on top of the clouds.	6	1	ソウ	かな.でる	奏でる (かな.でる)
1694	reality	Thực	実	reality, house, bonsai	8	40	House . . . bonsai.		Bonsais are grown in a house, away from the harsh reality of the real world where they wouldn´t survive.	On this rather boring ´big brother´ type reality show, they have locked up bonsai inside a house and everyone is watching them on TV 24x7. The viewers have to vote on which bonsai shall remain in the house and which one has to leave.	3	3	ジツ、シツ	み、みの.る、まこと、まことに、みの、みち.る	実 (み), 実る (みの.る)
1695	dedicate	Phụng	奉	observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk	8	40	Bonsai . . . cornstalk. Use a ritualistic, religious meaning.		To join the temple, you have to dedicate yourself to raising bonsai for enlightenment, and cornstalks for sustenance.	"A Japanese farmer who was growing corn tried to dedicate himself to the god of corn (in the hope it would bring better harvests). He had a little room with prayer beads, incense, etc. One day he brought an offerand that he thought would please the god of corn : a bonsai - corn (a corn plant turned into a bonsai). The god was infuriated and yelled at him ""HOW DARE YOU TORTURE MY CORN IN SUCH WAYS!"". The End."	JH	1	ホウ、ブ	たてまつ.る、まつ.る、ほう.ずる	奉納 (ほうのう), 奉仕 (ほうし), 信奉 (しんぽう), 奉る (たてまつ.る)
1696	stipend	Bổng	俸	stipend, person, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk	10	40	Person . . . dedicate.		Mr. T gets a stipend every month if he stays dedicated to his temple training, a very hard thing for the impatient T.	People who are highly dedicated to their jobs get good salaries/stipends.	JH	1	ホウ		
1697	rod	Bổng	棒	rod, tree, wood, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk	12	40	Tree . . . dedicate.		Ha! If you know anything about Buddhist monks, during meditation, they're slapped with wooden rods to stay dedicated to their task	"This wooden rod has one very simple dedication engraved on it: ""Spare the rod, spoil the child...""."	6	2	ボウ		
1698	discreet	Cẩn	謹	discreet, say, words, keitai, mouth, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up	17	40	Words . . . cabbage.		Cabbage primitive: When a cabbage is growing up, you must put it in your mouth before it flowers, because that´s when it becomes bitter. Seriously, it´s called ´bolting´ or something. When you´re discreet, you try to make your words like a cabbage: well-layered, but in an unassuming way.	Muttering words of gratitude for a wonderful meal, I discreetly slipped my cabbage under the table for the dog.	JH	1	キン	つつし.む	謹む (つつし.む)
1700	diligence	Cần	勤	diligence, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up, power, muscle, arnold	12	40	Cabbage . . . muscle.		With enough diligence, Koreans can turn ordinary cabbage into powerful kimchi.	Growing cabbages takes muscle and diligence.	6	3	キン、ゴン	つと.める、-づと.め、つと.まる、いそ.しむ	勤務 (きんむ), 勤勉 (きんべん), 出勤 (しゅっきん), 勤まる (つと.まる), 勤める (つと.める)
1701	Sino-	Hán	漢	sino, water, water droplets, water pistol, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband	13	40	Water . . . scarecrow. The key word has come to refer to things Chinese in general, including the kanji themselves (for which this character is used).		In the water between Japan and China, the Sino- side has put scarecrows in the water to try and keep the Japanese away.	"Sino- (Chinese) people had to put a lot of sweat/water into learning the kanji. For right-hand kanji primitive - The dumb Western husband of a Japanese woman buys her flowers to apologise, after he opened his big mouth and said ""kanji are a stupid writing system"".."	3	4	カン		
1702	sigh	Thán	嘆	sigh, mouth, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband	13	40	Mouth . . . scarecrow.		"A sigh escapes the mouth of the scarecrow, who laments: ""...if I only had a brain, I could learn kanji""."	I will let out a huge sigh of relief from my mouth when I learn the last kanji.	JH	1	タン	なげ.く、なげ.かわしい	嘆かわしい (なげ.かわしい), 嘆く (なげ.く)
1703	difficult	Nan	難	difficult, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband, turkey	18	40	Scarecrow . . . turkey.		It is difficult for a scarecrow to scare a turkey or else they would´ve been called scareturkeys.	Learning Kanji is difficult for Turkeys.	6	3	ナン	かた.い、-がた.い、むずか.しい、むづか.しい、むつか.しい、-にく.い	難い (かた.い), 難しい (むずか.しい)
1704	splendor	Hoa	華	splendor, flowers, silage, ten, needle	10	40	Flower . . . silage . . . needle.		The Queen of England taking a walk round a village: ´Excuse me, I couldn´t help noticing the splendour of the flowers in your garden. Simply splendid. Ten out of ten.´ The villager gruffly replies: ´No it ´aint. It´s all muck. An´ I´m gonna cut it all down and sell it to the farmer for silage.´.	(I'm substituting greenhouse for silage. It is also full of all types of plants, and the shape resembles the windows that cover the building to let in the light.) See the splendor of the roses filling the greenhouse, beauty atop a stem of needles (thorns).	JH	1	カ、ケ	はな	華美 (かび), 繁華 (はんか), 栄華 (えいが), 華 (はな)
1705	droop	Thuỳ	垂	droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor	8	40	A drop of . . . silage . . . walking stick . . . floor. The character is written in the order of its elements.		For an old man with a walking stick, even a drop of silage to carry on his back will make him droop low down to the floor.	Even a drop of silage is enough to make an old man with a walking stick droop low down to the floor. (rgravina - fixed up order).	6	1	スイ	た.れる、た.らす、た.れ、-た.れ、なんなんと.す	垂らす (た.らす), 垂れる (た.れる)
1707	drowsy	Thuỵ	睡	drowsy, eye, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor	13	40	Eyes . . . droop.		Our eyes droop when we are drowsy.	"Hint : the eyes of Droopy Dog (see droop (#1582)). When you are drowsy you have ""droopy eyes"". That is, you have Droopy´s eyes!"	JH	1	スイ		
1708	spindle	Truy (quả cân)	錘	spindle, metal, gold, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor	16	40	Metal . . . droop.		Wasn´t it a cursed spindle that Sleeping Beauty pricked her finger on? Therefore the spindle was the metal that caused her to droop and eventually sleep for 100 years.	Spindle: the needle that drops on an LP record player. This is made of metal. It droops. Viola.	Names	1	スイ	つむ、おもり	錘 (つむ)
1709	ride	Thừa (lên xe)	乗	ride, wheat, cereal, silage	9	40	The simplest way to remember this character is to find the sprig of wheat in it, hidden because it doubles up with one stroke of silage.		It´s a hay ride! You sit on piles of silage and everyone likes to imitate old-time farmers with a piece of wheat sticking out of their mouths.	[ride; power; multiplication; record; counter for vehicles; board; mount; join] In the near future, we hope to ride on biomass fueled vehicles. Good news for those who have wheat silage surplus.	3	3	ジョウ、ショウ	の.る、-の.り、の.せる	乗せる (の.せる), 乗る (の.る)
1710	surplus	Thặng	剰	surplus, ride, wheat, cereal, silage, sword, sabre, saber	11	40	Ride . . . saber.		If you go for a ride and find a saber beside you, perhaps you got into an Army surplus jeep.	Remember the wheat we cut with scythes (farmer's equivalent of a saber) for profit (#906)?　Well, we harvested too much and have to use the surplus for silage. 過剰 (かじょう) : excess.	JH	1	ジョウ	あまつさえ、あま.り、あま.る	
1711	now	Kim (đương kim bạch nhật)	今	now, meeting, umbrella, one, 7	4	41	The final stroke of this kanji is a rare shape, which we have not met before and will only meet in this character and others that include it as a primitive. We are more accustomed to seeing it straightened out as part of other shapes - for instance, as the second stroke of mouth. If you need any help at all with this character, you may picture it as two hands of a clock pointing to what time it is now. The element above it, meeting, should easily relate to that image.	* We shall use clock as the primitive meaning of this character, in line with the above explanation.	My MEETING is at 7- but that´s NOW!	(re: ruuku35) The meeting is not at quarter to seven but now!	2	5	コン、キン	いま	今後 (こんご), 今日 (きょう), 今朝 (けさ), 今年 (こんねん), 昨今 (さっこん), 今 (いま)
1712	include	Hàm (hàm ý, hàm súc)	含	include, now, clock, mouth	7	41	Clock . . . mouth.		This clock includes a mouth that will tell you what the time is now. Hearing impaired people have this kind of watches... now imagine them as a big mouth under the clock.	Batteries included with this clock. Open the mouth at the back and insert them after purchase.	JH	2	ガン	ふく.む、ふく.める	含む (ふく.む), 含める (ふく.める)
1714	versify	Ngâm	吟	versify, mouth, now, clock	7	41	As we have already learned characters for poem (Frame 370), chant (Frame 21), and song (Frame 508), it is important to protect this key word with an image all its own. Its elements are the same as those above; only the position has changed: mouth . . . clock.		A rapper is trying to versify, but sucks: Hickery dickery dock, the mouth spat out the clock. I'm gonna shoot you with my glock, if you don't suck my cock! Versify!	To versify, words of rhythm needs to shoot out of your MOUTH with a CLOCK-like regularity.	JH	1	ギン		
1715	wish	Niệm (tưởng niệm)	念	wish, now, clock, heart	8	41	Clock . . . heart.		Someone wishing from the bottom of their heart that the clock would stop. A mid-life crisis perhaps.	Remember in the Wizard of Oz when the tin man wished for a heart and the wizard gave him that dinky little clock instead?	4	3	ネン		
1717	harp	Cầm	琴	harp, king, jewel, ball, now, clock, king2, jewel2, ball2	12	41	A pair of jewels . . . clock.		Two kings were fighting over a beautiful koto (harp). So they had a clock built into it that would measure how long each one played it. That way they could be sure none played it more than othe other.	"Jesus is coming soon. Prepare to meet the king of kings now. Practice your harp playing skills all future angels!...　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　キン　琴線　きんせん(""heart strings"")."	JH	1	キン	こと	琴 (こと)
1718	shade	Âm	陰	shade, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, now, clock, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall	11	41	Just as the sunshine (Frame 1397) represents the masculine principle in nature (Yang), the shade stands for the feminine principle (Yin). Its elements are: pinnacle . . . clock . . . rising cloud.		There are three types of shade: 1. natural (a high pinnacle), 2. man-made buildings (a clock tower), 3. meteorological (a cloud).	Frosty the snowman is running around the pinnacle, staying in the shade. As he looks at his clock to see how much longer he can last, small clouds rise (steam) from his body. Nooo, Frosty!	JH	1	イン	かげ、かげ.る	陰 (かげ), 陰る (かげ.る)
1719	beforehand	Dự	予	beforehand, halberd with stroke missing	4	41	Think of this character as identical to the halberd (Frame 1311) except that the final stroke has been omitted. Return to that character and devise some image to take this difference into account.		Beforehand, this was a halberd but I cut it short so it could be for hand to hand combat.	Your halberd doesn´t have a handguard? You should have thought of that beforehand (i.e., before you were missing your hand).	3	3	ヨ、シャ	あらかじ.め	
1720	preface	Tự	序	preface, cave, beforehand	7	41	Cave . . . beforehand.		The preface to all human history was written beforehand in caves.	"Rename the ""beforehand"" part to be glove (because you have to wear gloves beforehand if you want to wield the halberd, which is why this primitive is an incomplete halberd). The story: a winter morning. A textbook author is holed up in his tiny office, a veritable cave. He wants to start his masterpiece textbook by first writing the preface. But he can´t get started. He sits and stares at empty paper until evening. It gets cold and he puts on gloves, shivering, but still unable to start his preface."	5	1	ジョ	つい.で、ついで	
1721	deposit	Dự	預	deposit, beforehand, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	41	Beforehand . . . head.		Depositing money into your savings account is something you do beforehand if you use your head. If you´re in Japan your passbook says 預金機（よきんき）when you make a deposit.	You bang your head on the ATM, wishing you´d deposited some money beforehand.	5	2	ヨ	あず.ける、あず.かる	預かる (あず.かる), 預ける (あず.ける)
1722	plains	Dã (cánh đồng)	野	plains, computer, beforehand	11	41	This character refers to rustic life and rustic fields primarily, and from there gets derived meanings. Its elements: computer. . beforehand.		These days we all work in front of computers. Beforehand we all worked out in the fields, in the plains.	The plains are a challenging place to get any work done. Be sure you recharge your computer´s battery beforehand, or you won´t get anything done.	2	4	ヤ、ショ	の、の-	野 (の)
1723	concurrently	Kiêm (kiêm nhiệm)	兼	concurrently, animal horns, rake, stick, stick2	10	41	At the top we have the animal horns and the single horizontal stroke to give them something to hang onto. Below that, we see one rake with two handles. Finally, we see a pair of strokes splitting away from each of the handles, indicating that they are both splitting under the pressure. The composite picture is of someone holding down two jobs concurrently, using the same kit of tools to move in two different directions and ending up in a mess. Take the time to find this sense in the kanji and it will be easy to remember, despite initial appearances.		Our ninja hero, disguised as a gardener with a rake, is suddenly attacked from both left and right concurrently by bulls with animal horns. Our hero lets out a blood-curdling scream and tears his rake handle vertically in half, so he now has two wooden staffs (split rake handle) to fight with. He grips each staff (left side and right side) and rams it into the horns of the charging bulls. The force of each charging bull causes the tips of each staff to split again (split bottom of each rake handle).	You decide to take the bull by the horns and do both chores concurrently, grabbing your double-handled rake before attempting to clean up both your´s and your neighbours´ garden. But unfortunately, it´s not long until your rake splits in two.	JH	1	ケン	か.ねる、-か.ねる	兼ねる (か.ねる)
1724	dislike	Hiềm (hiềm khích)	嫌	dislike, woman, concurrently, animal horns, rake	13	41	Woman . . . concurrently.		Naturally, if you´re dating more than one woman concurrently, they will certainly dislike each other!	Attempting to court two women concurrently will make them both dislike you.	JH	1	ケン、ゲン	きら.う、きら.い、いや	嫌悪 (けんお), 嫌疑 (けんぎ), 嫌 (いや), 嫌う (きら.う)
1725	sickle	Liêm (cái liềm)	鎌	sickle, metal, gold, concurrently, animal horns, rake	18	41	Metal . . . concurrently.		This is a special sickle with metal blades on both sides. It can cut many things concurrently!	The gold sickle of the USSR flag represents both leaders and workers laboring concurrently.	JH	1	レン、ケン	かま	鎌 (かま)
1726	self-effacing	Khiêm	謙	self-effacing, say, words, keitai, mouth, concurrently, animal horns, rake	17	41	Words . . . concurrently.		When you are self-effacing you use words to concurrently bring yourself down and make yourself look better.	Though the man´s words were self-effacing, his actions concurrently made it clear that his modesty was false.	JH	1	ケン		
1727	bargain	Liêm (thanh liêm)	廉	bargain, cave, concurrently, animal horns, rake	13	41	Cave . . . concurrently.		"Stores don´t want you to know it, but if you find the secret cave, they run bargains there concurrently to their regular prices. (Image: pulling a certain level in a store to find the ""bargain cave)."	If you have several sellers competing concurrently, one will cave in and give you a bargain…　RTK2:　レン　廉売　れんばい(bargain)…　MIXED GROUP: 鎌1599　(ｹﾝ): 兼1597　嫌1598　謙1600.	JH	1	レン		
1728	west	Tây	西	west, one, four	6	41	To our way of counting directions, the west always comes fourth. So it is convenient to find the character for four in this kanji. But since we want only one of the four directions, the west adds the one at the top and sucks the human legs a bit out of their mouth in the process.	* As a primitive, the meaning of west can be expanded to refer to the Old West of cowboy-movie fame, just as the meaning of the character for east was expanded into the East. Note, however, that in its primitive form the legs are straightened out and reach down to the bottom of the mouth. Hence, we get the shape ⻃. With the exception of one kanji, given in the following frame, this element always appears at the top of its relative primitives.	The old west represented by a completely empty whiskey bottle (compare sign of the bird (#1427) whiskey bottle about one third full).	Note: this kanji is also used to denote Spain.	2	5	セイ、サイ、ス	にし	西暦 (せいれき), 西部 (せいぶ), 北西 (ほくせい), 西 (にし)
1729	value	Giá	価	value, person, old west	8	41	Person . . . Old West.		In the West, people have no value. Only money is important.	"What might it mean for a person in the old west to be of value? Their face is on a ""Wanted!"" poster, of course. Imagine the reward..."	5	1	カ、ケ	あたい	価 (あたい)
1730	need	Yếu (yêu cầu)	要	need, old west, woman	9	41	Old West . . . woman.		In the Old West, women were needed because nobody knew how to cook or clean.	In some movie with the theme of the Old West, the population of a town finds themselve in dire need of women, after all of the town´s womens became crazy and started gunshooting and participating in duels and such.	4	3	ヨウ	い.る	要る (い.る)
1731	loins	Yêu (eo lưng)	腰	loins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, need, old west, woman	13	41	Part of the body . . . need.		If you want to get closer to the actual meaning, then I think that 腰(こし) is more like the hips or the small of the back. After being sat down in the office too long, people often say 腰がいたい！It´s the part of the body that needs massaging.	"To the puritans reading this site - please stop reporting stories that have anything to do with sex! Although (as wrightak said) this kanji really refers to the hips, Heisig clearly chose the keyword ´loins´ because it was anatomically close enough, and the primitives lent themselves to an easy-to-remember story. Just because you´re all sexually repressed doesn´t mean other people won´t benefit from a story such as ""the part of the body people need more than any other are the loins""."	JH	2	ヨウ	こし	腰 (こし)
1732	ballot	Phiếu, tiêu, phiêu (Lá phiếu, sự bỏ phiếu kín)	票	ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small	11	41	Old West . . . altar.		In the Old West there were no ballot boxes. Afraid of fraud and fighting among the gunslingers, the ballots were posted into a slot in the top of the local church altar instead. They may have been rough, but the cowboys wouldn´t fight in the church.	In western political elections (US), peoples ballots will often depend on religion and at which altar the prospective president prays.	4	1	ヒョウ		
1733	drift	Phiêu (phiêu lưu)	漂	drift, water, water droplets, water pistol, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small	14	41	Water . . . ballot.		In Florida, Bush through Kerry´s ballots into the water, watching them drift away and setting the whole country adrift.	The political fanatic stole all the ballots and dumped them in the stream. He calmly watched them drift away as the cops came to a screech behind him.	JH	1	ヒョウ	ただよ.う	漂う (ただよ.う)
1734	signpost	Tiêu, phiếu	標	signpost, tree, wood, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small	15	41	Tree . . . ballot.		Trees were frequenly used as signposts in those days, indicating where one had to go to cast their ballots.	"Large wooden signposts are planted on peoples lawns, with the faces of their representatives all saying: ""Vote [1] Me!"" for the upcoming ballot."	4	1	ヒョウ	しるべ、しるし	
1735	chestnut	Lật (hạt dẻ)	栗	chestnut, old west, tree, wood	10	41	Old West . . . tree.		Chestnut tree, west nut tree.	The cowboy climbed the tree to see where they were in the woods. The poor guy chose a chestnut tree. ouch ouch.	Names	1	リツ、リ	くり、おののく	
1737	transition	Thiên	遷	transition, old west, large, St. Bernard, snake, self, road	15	41	West . . . St. Bernard dog . . . snake . . . road.		Since the days of the Old West, traveling has transitioned from trying not to step on big snakes to driving on big roads.	The west has gone through quite a transition, gone are the days when dogs and snakes roamed the desert, it´s all roads and casinos now.	JH	1	セン	うつ.る、うつ.す、みやこがえ	
1738	capsize	Phúc	覆	capsize, old west, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs	18	41	West . . . restore.		The U.S.S. Old West has capsized, and all the cowboys on board are trying to restore her upright.	Remember Oregon Trail? Remember how you had to float your wagon across rivers to get to the Old West? Well, sometimes that wagon capsizes. Once that happens you´d better quickly head to the nearest town to restore.	JH	1	フク	おお.う、くつがえ.す、くつがえ.る	覆う (おお.う), 覆す (くつがえ.す), 覆る (くつがえ.る)
1739	smoke	Yên	煙	smoke, hearth fire, old west, soil, dirt, ground	13	41	Hearth . . . Old West . . . ground.		In the Old West, they used to light fires in the ground to make smoke signals.	"Should be easy. SMOKE brings to mind ""Where there´s SMOKE, there´s FIRE"". So, the FIRE in the OLD WEST can tell people we´re you´re at, so put out the FIRE with SOIL to keep the SMOKE to a minimum."	JH	3	エン	けむ.る、けむり、けむ.い	煙い (けむ.い), 煙る (けむ.る), 煙 (けむり)
1740	south	Nam	南	south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2	9	41	Belt . . . happiness. Note how the belt runs through the middle of happiness.		South of my belt leads to happiness.	"In the south (Southern Alabama, Southern Africa, picture any south, but choose one and stick with it) ""they measure happyness by the belt"". If someone has a larger belly (and a longer belt), it is believed they are well fed and thus are happy."	2	5	ナン、ナ	みなみ	南北 (なんぼく), 南端 (なんたん), 指南 (しなん), 南 (みなみ)
1741	camphor tree	Nam (cây nam)	楠	camphor tree, tree, wood, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2	13	41	Tree . . . south.		We traveled to southern Japan just to see a camphor tree. It´s what we came for.	Trivia: Cinnamomum camphora is native to Taiwan, southern Japan, southeast China and Indochina,.	Names	1	ナン、ダン、ゼン、ネン	くす、くすのき	
1742	offering	Hiến	献	offering, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, ten2, needle2	13	41	South . . . chihuahua.		A South Korean street vendor is offering chihuahu snacks.	If you go to someones place and the food sucks, you lower it down south of the table as an offering to their dog.	JH	1	ケン、コン	たてまつ.る	献上 (けんじょう), 献身的 (けんしんてき), 文献 (ぶんけん)
1743	gates	Môn (nhập môn)	門	gates	8	42	The pictograph of two swinging gates is so clear in this kanji that only its stroke order needs to be memorized. In case you should have any trouble, though, you might doodle with the shapes on a piece of paper, taking care to note the difference in the stroke order of the two facing doors. The gates usually serve as an enclosure, and are written BEFORE whatever it is they enclose.	* As a primitive, we shall continue to give it the meaning of gates, but recommend the image of swinging doors (like the kind once common at entrances to saloons) to distinguish it from the primitive for door.	"Heisig´s stroke order in the 4th edition (and earlier) is wrong, so be careful -- first is the left-most vertical stroke, then draw the rest of the ""sun"" attachment as you would normally. In fact, if you just wrote it out as two suns with elongated sides, you´ll get the stroke order exactly correct."	The gates to Hell. guarded by Cerebus or ... Bill Gates?	2	2	モン	かど、と	門 (かど)
1744	question	Vấn	問	question, gates, mouth	11	42	Gates . . . mouth.		"A mouth on the Gates of Hell says ""Answer me these questions three, or thru the gates ye soon will be""."	Hark! Who goes there? is the expected question from the mouth of the guard at the gate…　　　RTK2:　モン　質問　しつもん(question).	3	4	モン	と.う、と.い、とん	問い (と.い), 問う (と.う)
1745	review	Duyệt	閲	review, gates, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs	15	42	Gates . . . devil. Keep the connotation of this key word distinct from those of inspection (Frame 1174), revise (Frame 362), and perusal (Frame 919).		A little devil at the gates of hell reviews your record to see if you´re evil enough to get in.	As I was reviewing for my exam at a quiet saloon, the devil popped out of nowhere and offered to make sure I pass. But I told him no way, since that´s cheating. Besides, I´m just reviewing things I already know. I won´t fail. But he kept insisting, so I kicked him and sent him crashing through the entrance gates.	JH	1	エツ	けみ.する	
1746	clique	Phiệt	閥	clique, gates, fell, person, fiesta	14	42	Gates . . . fell.		You set a guard at the gate to fell intruders not of your clique.	The felled souls of the world, cut down like trees, pass through the gates of hell and join the clique.	JH	1	バツ		
1747	interval	Gian	間	interval, gates, sun, day	12	42	Gates . . . sun/day. This interval applies to time and space alike, but the latter is better for creating an image.		The interval between star systems (suns) was too large, so the stargates were created to travel between them.	We open the gates at regular intervals to let a bit of sun in.	2	5	カン、ケン	あいだ、ま、あい	間隔 (かんかく), 中間 (ちゅうかん), 時間 (じかん), 間 (あいだ), 間 (ま)
1749	simplicity	Giản	簡	simplicity, bamboo, interval, gates, sun, day	18	42	Bamboo . . . interval.		[simplicity; brevity] The ししおどし is a bamboo device for scaring birds from the gates of your garden by clacking against a stone at regular intervals. Its design is simplicity itself. (Inspired by PepeSeco).	The simplicity of bamboo plant is in all its joints being at equal intervals.	6	2	カン		
1750	open	Khai	開	open, gates, two hands	12	42	Gates . . . two hands.		Sure you can squeeze through these gates by kicking them or pushing them with your body, but if you want to get them wide open, you need to do that with both your hands.	To open the gate, use your both hands.	3	4	カイ	ひら.く、ひら.き、-びら.き、ひら.ける、あ.く、あ.ける	開く (あ.く), 開ける (あ.ける), 開く (ひら.く), 開ける (ひら.ける)
1751	closed	Bế	閉	closed, gates, genie	11	42	Gates . . . genie.		"The gates are too big to be closed by man. Only a genie can. ""Close sesame!""."	Alright none of you GENIUSES could figure out how the door is CLOSED, so I invented these. They are called the SALOON DOORS. With these, you don't need to.	6	3	ヘイ	と.じる、と.ざす、し.める、し.まる、た.てる	閉まる (し.まる), 閉める (し.める), 閉ざす (と.ざす), 閉じる (と.じる)
1752	towering tower	Các	閣	tower, gates, each, walking legs, mouth	14	42	Gates . . . each.		"To keep this distinct from other kanji such as ""watchtower"" and ""pagoda"", I use the mnemonic ""towering tower"". -- In some old 8-bit kung-fu videogame, with a plot similar as Bruce Lee´s last, unfinished movie, the hero must break through a gate at each level of the towering tower, fighting with opponents using various styles of kung-fu until he meets the finale at the topmost level of the ""towering tower""."	Remember the two towers from lord of the rings... each has it´s own - very difficult to master - entrance gate.	6	1	カク		
1753	leisure	Nhàn	閑	leisure, gates, tree, wood	12	42	Gates . . . tree.		Imagine the gates the Garden of Eden, the ultimate land of leisure. You´re not allowed in, but if you peek through you can see trees.	Imagine Leisure Suit Larry walking through the saloon doors with wood in his pants, hoping to get lucky.	JH	1	カン		
1754	hear	Văn	聞	hear, gates, ear	14	42	Gates . . . ear. Compare the story you invented for the kanji meaning listen (Frame 890).		Press your ear to the gates and see if you can hear what is going on inside.	To distinguish from listen, you hear someone at the door (gate).	2	5	ブン、モン	き.く、き.こえる	新聞 (しんぶん), 風聞 (ふうぶん), 見聞 (けんぶん), 聞く (き.く), 聞こえる (き.こえる)
1755	wet	Nhuận	潤	wet, water, water droplets, water pistol, intercalate, gates, king, jewel, ball	15	42	Water . . . gates . . . king.		Forgetting about the moat, the king stepped out of his gate and landed in the water. Needless to say he got wet.	(I had the same idea as Dingomick) I imagine some prankster who put a bucket full of water on top of the huge gates, so that it would fall on the king as he came through them. See the king now, between the gates, all wet, dripping drops of water.	JH	1	ジュン	うるお.う、うるお.す、うる.む	潤む (うる.む), 潤う (うるお.う), 潤す (うるお.す)
1756	column	Lan	欄	column, tree, wood, gates, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2	20	42	Tree . . . gates . . . east.		A column of text scratched on a black tree beside the gates of Hell: To the East lies The Beast.	[column; handrail; blank; space] I think about oriental (eastern) Torii gates: they have two supporting columns made of wood.	JH	1	ラン	てすり	
1757	fight	Đấu	闘	fight, gates, beans, table, one, mouth, glue	18	42	Gates . . . table . . . glue. Do not confuse with contend (Frame 1238).		During the saloon brawl, one guy got glued to a table and was tossed out through the saloon gates. But he really wanted to fight, so he ran back through those gates (with the table still glued to his back) only to be tossed out again. Imagine him repeatedly running in and being tossed back out.	Food fight! Look, beans are stuck to the gates like glue.	JH	1	トウ	たたか.う、あらそ.う	闘う (たたか.う)
1758	godown	Thương (nhà kho)	倉	godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth	10	42	The single gate is used here not in order to represent one gate, but many of them, indeed a meeting of gates. Add mouth (as an entrance here) and you end up with godown. That should help keep this character distinct from warehouse (Frame 633).		(Warning-this one is crude) Imagine a godown (dockside warehouse) where you can meet girls who will godown on you with their mouth. To keep the place a bit of a secert, they only have one gate.	Note: this is not gate but actually a variation of door and is written as such, with the vertical stroke last not first.	4	1	ソウ	くら	倉 (くら)
1759	genesis	Sáng	創	genesis, godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth, sword, sabre, saber	12	42	Godown . . . saber.		I prefer to have girls Godown on my sabre to prevent unwanted GENESIS of babies............創造　そうぞう (creation).	Back in the day the people were so excited to get hold of the Sega genesis they looted the godown with sabers.	6	1	ソウ、ショウ	つく.る、はじ.める、きず、けず.しける	
1760	un-	Phi	非	un-, jail cell, prison bars	8	42	"This key word, a negating prefix, is a doodle of a heavy iron pole with bars extending in both directions, to create the picture of a jail cell. From there to ""un-"" is but a short step."	* As a primitive, we shall draw on the explanation above for the meaning of jail cell.	This looks like a pictogram of 3 fingers from each hand trying to open up a crack in a wall. That´s an un-believable way to escape from prison OR the UN- have a prison in the Hague.	People in the jail cell are un-friendly, un-comely, and un-cooperative.	5	3	ヒ	あら.ず	
1761	haiku	Bài	俳	haiku, person, un-, jail cell, prison bars	10	42	This character is used for the haiku, the 17-syllable poem that is one of Japan's best-known literary forms. Its elements: person .. . jail cell.		I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail cell/ I pity the fool. (Credit taijuando).	I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail/ I pity the fool.	6	1	ハイ		
1762	repudiate	Bái (bài trừ, gạt ra)	排	repudiate, finger, fingers, un-, jail cell, prison bars	11	42	Fingers . . . jail cell.		When ordered to go to the jail cell, the defendant gave the judge the finger and said he repudiated all that the legal system stood for if they were going to send an innocent man like him to jail.	He reached his fingers through the bars of his jail cell, trying to touch his beloved. But she repudiated him and left.	JH	1	ハイ		
1763	sad	Bi	悲	sad, un-, jail cell, prison bars, heart	12	42	Jail cell . . . heart.		Saddness is like having your heart captured and jailed because of some sad or terrible event, etc. Here the sad heart waits for someone to come and un-lock their jail cell and set them free again.	Stuck in a jail cell with his heart crying out to see his family again, the prisoner has never felt so sad.	3	3	ヒ	かな.しい、かな.しむ	悲しい (かな.しい), 悲しむ (かな.しむ)
1764	guilt	Tội	罪	guilt, eye, cross-eyed, net, un-, jail cell, prison bars	13	42	Eye . . . jail cell.		Guilty under the eyes of the law, therefore sentenced to jail. [note: ´UNDER the eye of the law´ works in penalty (#833) as well.].	It is his guilt that is causing them. He is having these nightmares where the great (sideways) eye appears at the top of his jail cell, and is staring down intently at him. Guilt is a merciless tormentor.	5	3	ザイ	つみ	罪 (つみ)
1765	comrade	Bối (tiền bối)	輩	comrade, un-, jail cell, prison bars, car	15	42	Jail cell . . . car.		Some man jailed in Russia, is freed by his comrade (from the Communist party perhaps), who crashes into the jail cell with a vehicle.	(+fuaburisu) But it´s the wrong jail cell! Your comrade is one floor above.	JH	1	ハイ	ともがら、 -ばら、 やかい、 やから	
1766	front door	Phi	扉	front door, door, one, ceiling, flag, un-, jail cell, prison bars	12	42	Door . . . jail cell.		The only way out of a jail cell is to serve your time and walk out the front door. There are no other doors.	"An old man serving a very long jail sentence painted a life-like door at the back of his jail cell, hlafway open, with the blue sky, clouds, etc, as some kind of symbol of freedom. Every time the prison officers come to take him they ask him to come to the door. The old man with a grin always answers ""Which door?"", looking at his painted door with a grin. And the prison officer always answer, sighing - ""The front door !""."	JH	1	ヒ	とびら	扉 (とびら)
1767	marquis	Hầu	侯	marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens	9	42	Person . . . key . . . dart. Hint: the pun suggested by the pronunciation of the key word and the primitive for key may come in helpful.		Mr. T is made a marquis after he and the A-Team save the life of a duke. The duke also gives Mr. T the key to the gentleman's dart room where one can relax in luxury, smoke a cigar, and play a friendly game of darts. Mr. T eagerly accepts the key and places it on one of the gold chains that hang around his neck which acts as a key chain.	(Going off various) Mr. T. is made a marquis and given the key to the city. But somebody disagrees with it and assassinates him with a dart.	JH	1	コウ		
1769	climate	Hậu	候	climate, marquis, person, stick, fred astaire, key, dart, drop, heavens	10	42	Marquis . . . walking stick. Note where the walking stick is positioned in this kanji.		The marquis has absolutely no interest in issuses of climate change. He´s old and near death. [Don´t forget the walking stick to symbolize his old age.].	The marquis moves to a warmer climate after he gets old enough to need a walking stick to get around.	4	3	コウ	そうろう	候 (そうろう)
1770	decide	Quyết	決	decide, water, water droplets, water pistol, guillotine, key, St. Bernard	7	42	The etymology of decide (de-cidere = cut off) will help here; the elements are: water . . . guillotine.		"Decide! ""Decide?! Death by drowning in polluted water or death by guillotine. How can I decide?"" I asked."	To decide if someone is a witch or not first dunk them in water. If they don´t drown they are a witch and can be sent to the guillotine.	3	3	ケツ	き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる、さ.く	決まる (き.まる), 決める (き.める)
1771	cheerful	Khoái	快	cheerful, Freud, state of mind, guillotine, key, St. Bernard	7	42	State of mind . . . guillotine.		A large crowd in a cheerful state of mind applaude each criminal as they become victims of the guillotine.	A cheerful crowd of insulted aliens applaude as Data´s head is chopped off by guillotine.	5	2	カイ	こころよ.い	快い (こころよ.い)
1772	admirable	Vĩ	偉	admirable, person, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing	12	42	Person . . . locket.		LOCKETs often carry inside them a picture of a PERSON we find ADMIRABLE.	"For locket: The locket (key dangling from something, the vertical stroke) opens like a mouth, but you need a jeweler´s monocle to make out the pictures within. ----- Dracula survives a staking attempt when the locket with Mina´s admirable picture deflects the blow. ""It was an admirable attempt,"" he admits as he sucks his attacker´s blood."	JH	3	イ	えら.い	偉い (えら.い)
1773	difference	Vi (trái, vi phạm)	違	difference, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, road	13	42	Locket . . . road.		"You lose your precious locket on the road to somewhere. You ask people if they´ve seen it, but no luck. ""Just buy another one,"" someone says. ""I mean, what´s the difference?"" Then of course you say ""Well, it makes a huge difference!! Since it has sentimental value, I don´t want a different one! "" Then of course they understand."	"An odd version of The Road Less Traveled: ""I found a locket in the road, and that has made all the difference.""."	JH	3	イ	ちが.う、ちが.い、ちが.える、-ちが.える、たが.う、たが.える	違う (ちが.う), 違える (ちが.える)
1774	horizontal	Vĩ	緯	horizontal, thread, spiderman, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing	16	42	Thread . . . locket.		Spiderman buys a locket for Mary Jane because he wants to get HORIZONTAL with her.	"Hint : this kanji also means ""latitude"", which are the horizontal lines on a globe. Do you remember James Heisig's story for frame 175 ""black ink"" ? Here a cartographer on a ship, is using his ""thread locket"" to mark horizontal lines on a map. He pulls a chalked thread from the locket, and snaps it to mark horizontal lines. Imagine the ""thread-locket"" in the shape of a globe, filled with dark powder and a little bobbin of thread."	JH	1	イ	よこいと、ぬき	
1775	defense	Vệ	衛	defence, boulevard, going, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing	16	42	Boulevard . . . locket. Do not confuse with ward off (Frame 1399), protect (Frame 1072), guard (Frame 198), or safeguard (Frame 756).		"[defense; protection] For ""defense against the dark arts"" class, you go the magical boulevard and buy an enchanted locket."	Since it was in the middle of the boulevard, everyone could see she hit the man only in self-defense, as he was trying to steal her valuable locket.	5	1	エイ、エ		
1776	Korea	Hàn	韓	korea, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, ten2, needle2	18	42	As with Italy (Frame 1245) and Africa (Frame 1391), this character simply abbreviates the full name of Korea. Its elements: mist . . . locket.		This character represents the flag of South Korea: a locket (circular taegeuk) in the middle of the mist (white background). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_South_Korea.	"There´s a young Korean male actor, Yon-sama, famous amongst middle-aged Japanese women. Extremely famous. Read about his affect on Japan/Korean relations on Everything2.com. In any case, women just flipped over this guy, traveled to Korea to see his home, started taking Korean language classes, etc. So, imagine here the misty eyes of the Japanese women as they clutch their lockets with Yon-sama´s picture inside watching his Korean romantic mini series called ""Winter Sonata""."	JH		カン	から、いげた	
1777	dry	Can	干	dry, clothesline	3	43	It is best to see this kanji as a pictograph of a revolving circular clothesline (viewed from the side). Spin it around quickly in your mind's eye to give it the connotation of to dry.	* The primitive meaning is clothesline.	Dry one item in ten minutes on the clothesline.	Note: the book shows the strokes for potato rather than dry...dry does not have the hook at the end.	6	2	カン	ほ.す、ほ.し-、-ぼ.し、ひ.る	干る (ひ.る), 干す (ほ.す)
1778	liver	Can (gan, tâm can)	肝	liver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dry, clothesline	7	43	Part of the body . . . dry.		Well you all know that the liver is the part of the body that would be quite grateful if you led a dry lifestyle (i.e. no alcohol).	The slaughterhouse prefers to ship dried liver to the supermarkets (can you imagine boxes soaked in blood on the truck that delivers them?). Imagine them lifting the slabs of flesh and hanging them on the clothesline to dry.	JH	1	カン	きも	肝 (きも)
1779	publish	San	刊	publish, dry, clothesline, sword, sabre, saber	5	43	Dry . . . saber.		The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry and then cut down with a sabre to be published.	The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry. This gives the government a chance to censor the news: they cut up unwanted stories with a sabre. Therefore, only state-approved stories are published.	5	2	カン		
1780	sweat	Hãn	汗	sweat, water, water droplets, water pistol, dry, clothesline	6	43	Water . . . dry.		The way sweat is supposed to work: it gets your skin wet, and then as it evaporates/dries, it cools you off.	When you sweat your clothes become soaked with water, prompting you to hang them to dry on a clothesline.	JH	2	カン	あせ	汗 (あせ)
1781	flats	Hiên (đếm nhà)	軒	flats, car, dry, clothesline	10	43	This kanji, a counter for houses, is made up of cars . . . dry.		Flats in the city are crowded. You get a space for your car in front, and a clothesline out back. Nothing else.	Small flats (garages) for cars help keeping them dry.	JH	2	ケン	のき	軒 (のき)
1782	beach	Ngạn (bờ)	岸	beach, mountain, cliff, dry, clothesline	8	43	Mountain . . . cliff . . . dry.		At the base of mountain cliffs, there is usually a beach. You often can see people lying there, drying off after a swim.	Three impossibilities for a beach: There cannot be a beach at the top of a mountain. There cannot be a beach on the top of a cliff. There cannot be a beach that is completely dry.	3	2	ガン	きし	岸 (きし)
1783	tree trunk	Cán	幹	tree trunk, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, umbrella, dry, clothesline, ten2, needle2	13	43	Mist . . . umbrella . . . dry. The meaning of this key word extends beyond tree trunks to represent the main stem or line of anything from railway lines to managerial staffs. This should help distinguish it from the stories used earlier for book (Frame 224) and body (Frame 1030), both of which made use of the image of a tree trunk, as well as the kanji for trunk (Frame 194).		A fine mist is falling, and so everyone gathers around near the tree-trunk, effectively using the rest of the tree as an umbrella in order to keep dry.	By astridtops - In the rainy mist, Totoro is standing in front of a tree-trunk at the bus stop, under the umbrella he just received. Look at him smiling: even when the big drops fall, he remains dry! Great story...which I get to by thinking: tree-trunk->TT ->Tonari no Totoro. I also imagine Mickey Mouse is there too as the KUNyomi for this kanji is みき.	5	1	カン	みき	幹 (みき)
1784	potato	Dụ	芋	potato, flowers, potato	6	43	Flowers . . . potato.		If your potatos are growing flowers and those little hooked roots, you should either buy less or eat them faster.	If your potatoes are growing flowers, you need to store them in a more dry place, like hanging them on hooks so they don´t accumulate moisture on the floor.	JH	1	ウ	いも	芋 (いも)
1785	eaves	Vũ (vũ trụ, dưới mái)	宇	eaves, house, potato	6	43	House . . . potato.		Under the eaves of the house the poor family has potate plants.	Very good image Erik. To help those who struggleded with this, the eaves of a house is usually the bit where you hang the roof gutter along, usually made of zinc or plastic and shaped as a half-pipe. It catches rain water, so it flows to a drain pipe instead of down onto people and windows. And in this family the potato plants grow along the eaves so the water pours down on them. They are poor. so no gutter.	6	2	ウ		
1786	too much	Dư	余	too much, umbrella, potato, small	7	43	Umbrella . . . potato . . . little. The last stroke of potato and the first of little coincide in this character.	"* Since the phrase ""too much"" is overly abstract, we shall take the image of a scale whose indicator spins round and round on the dial because too much weight has been set on it. It will help to use this image in learning the kanji itself."	You hang an umbrella upside-down on a hook of the scales and fill it with little potatoes. No luck: it weights too much.	"This is the kanji for 「あまり Amari」, which means too little in negative sentences and too much in the rest (always with a negative sense). I take the liberty of using the symbol "">"" (more than, another meaning!!) as the umbrella component, and using two (#2) and little (#105) for the potato primitive. So, this kanji either means ""two much"" (more than 2) or ""two little"". (thanks, Virtua_leaf and Thunderball!)."	5	3	ヨ	あま.る、あま.り、あま.す、あんま.り	余す (あま.す), 余る (あま.る)
1787	exclude	Trừ	除	exclude, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small	10	43	Pinnacle . . . scale.		You won´t make it unless you exclude something. The climb to the pinacle cannot be completed if you are carrying too much. You just have to decide what you can afford to exclude.	To become a member of The Pinnacle, they test you on a scale. If you weigh too much, they exclude you.	6	3	ジョ、ジ	のぞ.く、-よ.け	除外 (じょがい), 除数 (じょすう), 解除 (かいじょ), 除く (のぞ.く)
1788	gradually	Từ (từ từ)	徐	gradually, Nelson, column, going, line, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small	10	43	Line . . . scale.		You can´t expect weight loss to happen overnight. You should limit going to the scale to weigh yourself to once a day or once a week, in order to observe the anticipated weight loss gradually.	I set up a column chart next to my scales so I could record my weight gradually changing.	JH	1	ジョ	おもむ.ろに	
1789	confer	Tự (kể lại)	叙	confer, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, crotch	9	43	Scale . . crotch. The key word has to do with conferring ranks, titles, and awards. It should not be confused with bestow (Frame 1335) or impart (Frame 795).		Amazed at the weight of his crotch, they conferred every honor upon him. (Image: guy with his junk on a scale getting a medal pinned to his chest/around his neck/being knighted, etc.).	If there is such a thing as too much crotch, the guy who gets that much should have an honor conferred upon him.	JH	1	ジョ	つい.ず、ついで	
1790	route	Đồ (tiền đồ, đường lối)	途	route, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, road	10	43	Scale . . . road.		On this route, all trucks have to check in at the scales before they can get on the road.	There are too many roads, so you need to plan a route.	JH	3	ト	みち	
1791	diagonal	Tà (nghiêng)	斜	diagonal, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, mmeasuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle	11	43	Scale . . . measuring cup.		The main bar of an old-fashioned scale(balance) will be very diagonal if you place a giant measuring cup on one side.	"The constellation of libra (meaning "" scales"" in latin) is diagonal to the handle of the big dipper."	JH	1	シャ	なな.め、はす	斜め (なな.め)
1792	paint	Đồ	塗	paint, water, water droplets, water pistol, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, soil, dirt, ground	13	43	Water . . . scale . . . ground.		If you add too much water to the paint it will drip onto the ground.	A true artisan mixes his own paint from water and soils on a scale in careful proportions.	JH	2	ト	ぬ.る、ぬ.り、まみ.れる	塗る (ぬ.る)
1793	bundle	Thúc	束	bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth	7	43	In the same way that we were able to see the sun in the tree within the kanji for east, here we see a square container in the shape of a mouth.		Unlike in 杏, this big mouth isn´t content to wait for apricots to fall in his mouth, so he has climbed the tree and is taking them in bundles.	Mnemonic: Bundle of joy. Here I see the proverbial stork with a baby hanging from its mouth fly straight into a tree. Painful, but he doesn´t drop the bundle.	4	3	ソク	たば、たば.ねる、つか、つか.ねる	束 (たば)
1794	trust	Lại (ỷ lại, yêu cầu)	頼	trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	16	43	Bundle . . . head.		We found a bundle of severed heads in your room, its difficult to trust you.	When you trust in something, you've got your head 頁 all bundled 束 up (wrapped up) in it.	JH	3	ライ	たの.む、たの.もしい、たよ.る	頼む (たの.む), 頼もしい (たの.もしい), 頼る (たよ.る)
1795	rapids	Lại (thác nước)	瀬	rapids, water, water droplets, water pistol, trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	19	43	Water . . . bundle . . . head.		You need complete trust in your water guide to attempt Class 5 rapids.	You can never trust the water in the rapids, it will do everything it can to pull you under. Imagine a line of natives with bundles upon their heads all fighting the rapids to cross the river.	JH	1	ライ	せ	瀬 (せ)
1796	imperial order	Sắc	勅	imperial order, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, power, muscle, arnold	9	43	In order to keep this character distinct from that for an imperial edict (Frame 366), we must draw again on a pun. Think of the order here as a mail order or an order of pizza phoned in by the Emperor for delivery to the imperial palace. Then it will not be hard to put together bundle and muscle to form a story about an imperial order.		This is an imperial order for pizza. To deliver the huge bundle of pizzas to the emperor, the pizza boy needs huge muscles.	Imperial order carries quite a bundle of executive power.	JH	1	チョク	いまし.める、みことのり	
1797	alienate	Sơ (không thân)	疎	alienate, zoo, critters, stop, footprint, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth	12	43	Zoo . . . bundle. Note that the element for zoo is flattened out on the left just as leg (Frame 1372) had been. This is the only time we will meet this form in this book.		[True story] In Osaka the homeless (the alienated) live in large numbers around the city zoo. Picture them in winter all bundled up in rags trying to keep warm, alienated from the society, living literally worst than the animals in the zoo who at least are bundled in their natural furs and have pens to live in sheltered from the elements.	This kanji is so strange that it was alienated at the kanji zoo. The bundle of joy stork bundles this kanji up and takes it to a kanji foster home.	JH	1	ソ、ショ	うと.い、うと.む、まば.ら	疎い (うと.い), 疎む (うと.む)
1799	quick	Tốc	速	quick, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, road	10	43	Bundle . . . road.		If you find a bundle of money on the road, pick it up quick before anyone notices.	Uh oh. The stork just dropped the bundle of joy in the middle of the road. Somebody save it, quick!	3	3	ソク	はや.い、はや-、はや.める、すみ.やか	速やか (すみ.やか), 速い (はや.い), 速める (はや.める)
1800	organize	Chỉnh	整	organise, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, taskmaster, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint	16	43	Bundle . . . taskmaster . . . correct.		Recycling in Japan, you have to make sure all your bundles are organized correctly otherwise the taskmasters won´t accept them.	When a bundle of taskmasters organize something chances are it won´t be done correctly because they are constantly arguing.	3	1	セイ	ととの.える、ととの.う	整う (ととの.う), 整える (ととの.える)
1801	saber	Kiếm	剣	sabre, saber, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, sword, sabre, saber	10	43	Awl . . . saber. As we promised way back in frame 87, here at last is the kanji on which the primitive element of the same name is based.		If it helps, make the awl primitive ice pick instead. They´re basically the same thing. This kanji is an easy David vs. Goliath story of the icepick vs. the saber...	"Every self-respecting ninja knows the story of ""The Awl and the Sabre"". According to the legend, a woman once defended herself by using an awl against a sabre! She used to work all day with that awl. However, the bandit using the sabre had no skill. And thus the awl beat the sabre. And from there the saying goes : ""The sabre is powerless against the awl, if one can´t use the sabre.""."	JH	1	ケン	つるぎ	剣 (つるぎ)
1802	precipitous	Hiếm (hiểm)	険	precipitous, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person	11	43	Pinnacle . . . awl.		The rock climber trying to get up to the pinnacle is dangling from a precipitous edge, hanging only one with his icepick.	Well I have someone climbing an inflatable precipitous pinnacle. Once at the top it is so precipitous that the person is afraid to climb down and instead punctures the inflatable pinnacle with an awl to get safely and slowly back to the ground.	5	3	ケン	けわ.しい	険しい (けわ.しい)
1803	examination	Kiểm	検	examination, tree, wood, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person	12	43	Tree . . . awl.		You're giving a TREE an EXAMINATION. You take a wood sample from the TREE with an AWL (cmp 校 (#1371)).	Don´t confuse with exam (#1278), test (#354), evaluate (#1487). Think of examination as a doctor´s examination. You´re having problems getting wood in bed. You go in for a doctor´s examination. The doctor shoves an icepick into your manhood as part of the examination.	5	1	ケン	しら.べる	
1804	frugal	Kiệm	倹	frugal, person, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, person2	10	43	Person . . . awl.		Mr. T is as frugal as they come. He uses his one ice pick for everything: to eat, pick his teeth, clean his toilet, kill people, cook, etc.	Khatzumoto needs to be frugal after spending all his money on Japanese media and none on food. His waist has shrunk and he needs a new belt, but being frugal he just punches another hole with his awl.	JH	1	ケン	つま.しい、つづまやか	
1805	heavy	Trọng, trùng	重	heavy, thousand, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground	9	43	Thousand . . . ri. Note how the long vertical stroke doubles up to serve both elements.		The first computer in the world was as heavy as thousand computers are now.	"To me it looks like a car with two extra wheels, like a truck. As it is a very heavy vehicle I suggest an image of a huge mining truck, like the yellow Liebherr T282B. Remember that the first ""wheel"" is a bit bent. http://www.primidi.com/2004/06/21.html."	3	4	ジュウ、チョウ	え、おも.い、おも.り、おも.なう、かさ.ねる、かさ.なる、おも	重量 (じゅうりょう), 重大 (じゅうだい), 二重 (にじゅう), 重 (え), 重い (おも.い), 重なる (かさ.なる), 重ねる (かさ.ねる)
1806	move	Động	動	move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold	11	43	Heavy . . . muscle.		Even though the furniture is heavy, it´ll be easy to move with all the muscles that he has.	His MUSCLES are so HEAVY, he barely can move...thats ironic.	3	4	ドウ	うご.く、うご.かす	動かす (うご.かす), 動く (うご.く)
1808	meritorious deed	Huân	勲	meritorious deed, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold, oven-fire, barbecue	15	43	Move . . . oven fire. So as not to confuse this kanji with the general character for merit (Frame 1369), you may associate the key word with military decorations and medals of distinction, both of which it is used for.		A meritorious deed? Like moving a damsel in distress out of a fire, maybe.	Prometheus did a meritous deed for humanity by MOVING FIRE from the gods to us humans.	JH	1	クン	いさお	
1809	work	Động	働	work, person, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold	13	43	Person . . . move. Do not confuse with labor (Frame 924).		A person who moves something is doing work, physically speaking.	"Mr T, move. Mr Ts new exercise video called ""Work it suckaz"". Here is shouting ""move it work it move work it!""."	4	3	ドウ、リュク、リキ、ロク、リョク	はたら.く	働く (はたら.く)
1810	species	Chủng	種	species, wheat, cereal, heavy, thousand, ri, computer	14	43	Wheat . . . heavy.		Our species has a wheat heavy diet...	"This kanji also means ""Seed."" STORY: Scientists have developed a new SPECIES of WHEAT that has large HEAVY seeds. Now we can feed the world."	4	3	シュ	たね、-ぐさ	種 (たね)
1811	collide	Xung	衝	collide, boulevard, going, heavy, thousand, ri, computer	15	43	Boulevard . . . heavy.		Two heavy trucks in a game of chicken collide while racing toward each other on the boulevard.	衝 【しょう】 (n) (1) important point (e.g. on a route); (2) important role (responsibility, etc.); (3) (astronomical) opposition. STORY:Two HEAVY trucks are playing a game of chicken on the BOULEVARD. However, they both missed the IMPORTANT POINT: that they have to turn in different directions. Naturally, they COLLIDE when they both turn in the same direction. (ty dingomick).	JH	1	ショウ	つ.く	
1812	fragrant	Huân	薫	fragrant, flowers, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, oven-fire, barbecue	16	43	Flowers . . . heavy . . . oven fire. Do not confuse with incense (Frame 977) or perfumed (Frame 532).		Do you know how they make those FRAGRANT air fresheners? Well you take some FLOWERS, compress them with a HEAVY weight, and put them on an OVEN FIRE for a while... (cmp perfume (#493)).	The heavier the flowers the stronger their fragrance when you burn them.	JH	1	クン	かお.る	薫る (かお.る)
1813	ill	Bệnh	病	ill, sickness, hospital, third class, one, ceiling, inside	10	44	Sickness . . . third class.		Caveman got ill after flying third class. The cabin air and food got to him. (Primitive: these all got MUCH easier when using CAVEMAN instead. ).	If you hang around a third class hospital, you´ll get ill with the sickness everyone else has.	3	4	ビョウ、ヘイ	や.む、-や.み、やまい	病気 (びょうき), 病根 (びょうこん), 看病 (かんびょう), 病む (や.む), 病 (やまい)
1814	stupid	Si	痴	stupid, sickness, hospital, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth	13	44	Know . . . sickness.		"This kanji shows stupidity as a ""knowledge-sickness"". Everybody can be stupid at times, and it usually happens because of a lack of experience. Hence the stupidity is a ""knowledge sickness""."	Of course caveman is stupid. He doesn´t know anything. He´s a caveman!	JH	1	チ	し.れる、おろか	
1815	pox	Đậu	痘	pox, sickness, hospital, beans, table, one, mouth	12	44	Sickness . . . beans.		Caveman has horrible pox. They look like edamame beans oozing bight green paste.	Pox is a sickness which symptoms include bean-shaped bumps on the skin.	JH	1	トウ		
1816	symptoms	Chứng	症	symptoms, sickness, hospital, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint	10	44	Sickness . . . correct.		Once you have all the symptoms right, you have correctly identified the sickness.	A sickness can only be correctly diagnosed if the symptoms are identified correctly.	JH	1	ショウ		
1819	rapidly	Tật	疾	rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens	10	44	"Be sure to keep this character distinct from quick (Frame 1799) and swift (Frame 298). Picture a succession of poison darts (the sort that inflict sickness) flying out rapid-fire from a blowgun, so that ""rapid-fire"" can conjure up the proper image."		I picture a sick caveman, and two people rapidly blowing darts at him. One is blowing poison darts, the other is blowing antidote darts. Will the sick caveman live or die? Depends on how rapidly they fire.	If shot with a poison dart, sickness develops rapidly.	JH	1	シツ	はや.い	
1821	diarrhea	Lỵ	痢	diarrhea, sickness, hospital, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber	12	44	Sickness . . . profit.		For a country full of pay-per-use public toilets, sudden diarrhea is certainly the most profitable sickness!	Caveman doesn´t have any skills, so he sells his diarrhea as chili to peasant wheat farmers for an amazing profit.	JH	1	リ		
1823	tired	Bí	疲	exhausted, tired, sickness, hospital, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook	10	44	Sickness . . . pelt.		I picture an exhausted sick caveman snuggling up in a comfy pelt blanket.	Your body feels tired when you have a sickness. All you want to do is wrap yourself up in a nice warm pelt and get better.	JH	3	ヒ	つか.れる、-づか.れ、つか.らす	疲らす (つか.らす), 疲れる (つか.れる)
1824	epidemic	Dịch	疫	epidemic, sickness, hospital, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	9	44	Sickness . . . missile.		"Sickness-missiles are being engineered by bio-terrorists to spread epidemics all over the world. Imagine seeing footage of a place where those sickness-missiles are built : rows after rows of missiles, and if you look closely on each is inscribed in tiny letters the name of different sickness such as ""flu"", ""plague"", etc."	SICKNESS / MISSILE ** Hint: True fact about biochemical warfare: in the medieval and ancient world, SICKNESS in the form of the corpses of those who had died from some EPIDEMIC or plague were often hurled at the enemy via the crude MISSILE launchers of the time. [C].	JH	1	エキ、ヤク		疫病 (えきびょう), 悪疫 (あくえき), 防疫 (ぼうえき)
1825	pain	Thống	痛	pain, sickness, hospital, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize	12	44	Sickness . . . chop-seal . . . utilize.		Think of the phrase pain in the xxx. Then think of a pogostick up your xxx. That's painful, right? The real question is why a pogostick is up your xxx. That's sick, dude.	When I was feeling sick my mum said I shouldn´t go out to play on my pogo stick until I felt better. Well I wasn´t strong enough to stay up on it and so fell over and have the pain to prove my mum right.	6	3	ツウ	いた.い、いた.む、いた.ましい、いた.める	痛い (いた.い), 痛む (いた.む), 痛める (いた.める)
1826	mannerism	Phích (tật xấu)	癖	mannerism, sickness, hospital, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle	18	44	Sickness . . . ketchup.		Caveman has a bad mannerism of putting ketchup on everything he eats. I guess that´s ok since raw mammoth can´t be too good...	This mannerism is a sickness of the modern generation. It was only recently that we started putting ketchup on everything.	JH	1	ヘキ	くせ、くせ.に	癖 (くせ)
1827	hide	Nặc	匿	hide, box, young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth	10	44	Box . . . young.		Young kids likes to hide in cardboard boxes. (Primitive: CARDBOARD BOX, especially kids playing with them.).	Note that stroke order with box primitive is as follows: first horizontal line, then enclosed element, and then a hook (it´s incorrect in 4th edition).	JH	1	トク	かくま.う	
1828	artisan	Tượng	匠	artisan, box, axe	6	44	Box . . . ax.		Hint: Artisan/Ax Def: An artisan is a skilled manual worker; a craftsperson. Here we see his tools represented by the artisan's ax stored in his toolbox.	We here have the axe-man who´s an artisan at making sculptures with his axe... The only thing is, he never shows anyone, keeping all his sculptures inside a box down in the basement. He doesn´t want any attention.	JH	1	ショウ	たくみ	
1829	doctor	Y	医	doctor, box, dart, drop, heavens	7	44	Box . . . dart.		Easily confused: Dr. (#47), doctor (#1694), examination (#1673), check-up (#1724), medicine (#1736). To avoid confusion I renamed this medic, and picture the medic from Team Fortress 2 returning to his box of darts in the supply cupboard every time his syringe gun is empty.	This DOCTOR prefers to use DARTS instead of syringes for injections. Here, he pulls out his BOX of DARTS, and the child on the examination table squirms.	3	4	イ	い.やす、い.する、くすし	
1830	equal	Thất (đôi, đơn, lẻ)	匹	equal, box, human legs	4	44	Box . . . human legs.		Put a box over everyone's heads, letting only the legs show, and we all look pretty much equal.	This kanji is used commonly as a counter for small animals. This is a pictograph of a SMALL ANIMAL´S view from inside a CARDBOARD BOX looking out at his masters HUMAN LEGS. He´s probably hiding so the master does not COUNT him with the other animals which will probably be eaten (thus he avoids everyones EQUAL fate on the farm: the kitchen table).	JH	2	ヒツ	ひき	匹 (ひき)
1831	ward	Khu	区	ward, box, sheaf	4	44	The ward referred to here is a subdivision of a large city. Its elements: box . . . sheaves. When used as a primitive element, it may be helpful at times to break it up into these same composite elements.		That´s the homeless ward of the city. Wolverine lives in a cardboard box there.	In the homeless ward of the city you see people sleeping in CARDBOARD BOXES using a SHEAF as a pillow.	3	2	ク、オウ、コウ		
1832	hinge	Su	枢	hinge, tree, wood, ward, box, sheaf	8	44	Tree . . . ward.		The hinge on Wolverine's cardboard box is made of wood because he doesn't have enough budget to buy metal hinges.	You notice a hinge on a tree and realize there´s a secret door. You open it up to find an Xbox!!!	JH	1	スウ、シュ	とぼそ、からくり	
1833	assault	Ẩu	殴	assault, ward, box, sheaf, missile, cruise missile, wind, crotch	8	44	Ward . . . missile.		The city decides to disperse the homeless ward with a precision missile assault. They didn't know Wolverine was living in a cardboard box there though...	The biggest assault on Japan during WW2 is when the wards in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were wiped out by nuclear missiles.	JH	1	オウ	なぐ.る	殴る (なぐ.る)
1834	Europe	Âu	欧	europe, ward, box, sheaf, lack, yawn	8	44	Ward . . . yawn. Like the kanji of frame 1776, this character is an abbreviation of the name of a geographical region.		Do japanese consider Europe like just a ward, boring enough to make them yawn?? This kanji is offensive!	[Europe] X-Box was first released in America and Japan (the biggest videogame markets). Europe had an X-Box lack for a while...	JH	2	オウ	うた.う、は.く	
1835	repress	Ức	抑	repress, finger, fingers, stamp album, box, stamps	7	44	Fingers . . . box . . . stamps.		A true stamp collecting nerd won't be able to repress the urge to get his fingers on the latest box of collector stamps!	They would repress dissents by cutting off their fingers and mailing them to relatives in small boxes (of course including stamps for proper postage).	JH	1	ヨク	おさ.える	抑える (おさ.える)
1836	faceup	Ngưỡng	仰	face up, person, stamp album, box, stamps	6	44	This character is used both for lying on one's back faceup, and for looking up to someone with respect and awe. Its elements: person . . . box . . . stamps.		Mr T with the post package at the post office: ´these stamps don´t stick to the box, foo´ Postguy:´ Try it again but this time with the stamp, face-up.´.	"Mr. T, his ""acting career"" in its twilight, must now FACE-UP to the fact that his mug will never appear on a BOX of cereal or on a STAMP."	JH	1	ギョウ、コウ	あお.ぐ、おお.せ、お.っしゃる、おっしゃ.る	仰視 (ぎょうし), 仰天 (ぎょうてん), 仰角 (ぎょうかく), 仰ぐ (あお.ぐ), 仰せ (おお.せ)
1837	welcome	Nghênh	迎	welcome, stamp album, box, stamps, road	7	44	Box . . . stamps . . . road.		Stamp-collectors sit and wait on the road to welcome new mail arrivals.	Welcome home daddy! Is that box for me? You were on the road a long time! I collected all the stamps from the letters you wrote me　:-) ...　　RTK2:　ゲイ　歓迎　かんげい(welcome).	JH	3	ゲイ	むか.える	迎える (むか.える)
1838	ascend	Đăng	登	ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth	12	44	Teepee . . . table. Do not confuse with rise up (Frame 43).		When an American Indian warrior dies, his body is placed on a TABLE inside a TEEPEE, and a ritualistic ceremony is held to encourage his spirit to ASCEND to that big buffalo hunting ground in the sky.	When I was a kid I went out camping in a teepee. I ate beans for dinner, and afterwards I produced so much gas that my teepee actually ascended in the air!	3	3	トウ、ト、ドウ、ショウ、チョウ	のぼ.る、あ.がる	登壇 (とうだん), 登校 (とうこう), 登記 (とうき), 登る (のぼ.る)
1839	lucidity	Trừng	澄	lucidity, water, water droplets, water pistol, ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth	15	44	Water . . . ascend.		Scuba divers know that when you ascend in the water, your lucidity increases (For non-divers, the deeper you go, the more you become mentally impaired by nitrogen narcosis, every 50 feet is like drinking one martini). Scuba divers also know that as you ascend in the water, the lucidity of the water improves, too.	A few drops of acid/peyote and the Indians obtain lucidity on their vision quest, as if they were floating in the lucid sky.	JH	1	チョウ	す.む、す.ます、-す.ます	澄ます (す.ます), 澄む (す.む)
1840	discharge	Phát	発	discharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs	9	44	This key word refers to the discharging of guns, trains, people, and even words. The elements: teepee . . . two . . . human legs. Contrast the writing with frame 63.		Two pairs of human legs poking out of a teepee: you know there´ll be a discharge soon, be it sexual, violent (husband returns home with a weapon), or dishonourable (soldier caught molesting a native), or perhaps all of the above.	I spent some time in her TEEPEE...just the TWO of us...but I looked between her HUMAN LEGS and I saw a nasty DISCHARGE...so I made my 出発　rather hastily.	3	4	ハツ、ホツ	た.つ、あば.く、おこ.る、つか.わす、はな.つ	発明 (はつめい), 発射 (はっしゃ), 突発 (とっぱつ)
1841	abolish	Phế	廃	abolish, cave, dicharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs	12	44	Cave . . . discharge.		Slaves have been discharged from the caves where they were kept thanks to the abolition of slavery.	Guns were abolished, so gun enthusiats left for the hills to discharge their guns in caves.	JH	1	ハイ	すた.れる、すた.る	廃る (すた.る), 廃れる (すた.れる)
1842	colleague	Liêu	僚	colleague, person, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little	14	44	Person . . . pup tent. Choose some connotation of the key word that will keep it distinct for you from companion (Frame 19), friend (Frame 760), consort (Frame 1287), and comrade (Frame 1765).		Trivia: The right primitive is kagaribi - 尞 - fuel used for sacrifices. I would use sacred bonfire as a primitive . (Mnemonic: Top is a merged image of big and fire - big sacred bonfire that looks like little sun). Story: Your colleague got fired literally... in a sacred bonfire by Mr.T.	"Mr. T began working in a japanese compagny. As he sees that his colleague accept to do some extra work during the week-end and even sleep at the office, he says to them: ""I pity da fool who work during week-end! You might as well install a pup tent in the office and forget about your home""."	JH	1	リョウ		
1844	dormitory	Liêu	寮	dormitory, house, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little	15	44	House . . . pup tent.		This guy would rather use his pup-tent as a house, than sleep in the dormitory. So he effectively turned that pup-tent into a house by getting a postal address for it etc. (just to emphasize house).	A dormitory is right in the middle between living in a house and living in a pup tent.	JH	1	リョウ		
1845	heal	Liệu	療	heal, sickness, hospital, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little	17	44	Sickness . . . pup tent.		In Final Fantasy 4, sleeping in a tent completely heals you and recovers all your HP and MP (and cures any sickness your characters may have).	The sick caveman asks gods to heal him (from a hangover) and sets a sacred bonfire in his cave.	JH	2	リョウ		
1846	carve	Điêu	彫	carve, circumference, running track, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, shape	11	45	The two primitives here, circumference and shape, belong naturally to the special connotations that differentiate carving from engraving (see frame 1639).		Start with a circumference and carve away until you get the shape you want.	A lathe is used to carve a shape with circumference into wood or metal.	JH	1	チョウ	ほ.る、-ぼ.り	彫る (ほ.る)
1847	shape	Hình	形	shape, two hands, shape	7	45	Two hands . . . shape.		Everyone in the kindergarten came up with fun and interesting shapes made out of Play-Doh, except for the kid with the amputated arm. Seems like you really need both hands.	With your two hands, outline the shape of a curvaceous woman. Is that a universally understood gesture? [Careful: mould (#680) which has two hands and soil/clay].	2	3	ケイ、ギョウ	かた、-がた、かたち、なり	形態 (けいたい), 形成 (けいせい), 図形 (ずけい), 形 (かた), 形 (かたち)
1848	shadow	Ảnh	影	shadow, scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, shape	15	45	Scenery . . . shape.		The sun over the capital cast a shadow with the same shape.	You're out hiking looking at the SCENERY, suddenly out of the corner of your vision you see a large SHADOW's indistinct SHAPE... could it be a grizzly? (cmp shade (#1592)).	JH	1	エイ	かげ	影 (かげ)
1849	Cedar	Sam, Soan	杉	cedar, tree, wood, shape	7	45	Tree . . . shape.		Cedar is an evergreen tree that keeps its SHAPE all year long. That is, it doesn´t loose its needles/leaves in the winter.	Cedar is a wood that keeps its shape. (This is true, it's rot resistant.).	JH	1	サン	すぎ	杉 (すぎ)
1850	coloring	Thái, thải	彩	coloring, claw, vulture, grab, tree, wood, shape	11	45	Vulture . . . tree . . . shape.		In Sydney we occasionally get exotic birds. You first notice a colouring in a tree. You look more carefully and you make out the shape of a bird (here represented by its claws).	When coloring something in you grab the crayon of choice to fill in the shapes.	JH	1	サイ	いろど.る	彩る (いろど.る)
1851	patent	Chương	彰	patent, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle, shape	14	45	"Badge . . . shape. The key word is synonymous with ""clear"" or ""openly expressed."""		The shape of a sheriff´s badge makes it patent who he is.	It was patently absurd when the fellow tried to arrest me--his badge was the wrong shape: a vase and a sunflower? Come now.	JH	1	ショウ		
1852	lad	Ngạn (kẻ sĩ đẹp và giỏi)	彦	lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape	9	45	Vase . . . cliff . . . shape.		A lad standing on the top of a cliff, looking into the far, and thinking how to shape his future.	A young lad is standing atop a cliff, looking at the writhing shape of his fallen lass below.	Names	1	ゲン	ひこ	
1853	face	Nhan	顔	face, lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	45	Lad . . . head.		The lad jumps off the cliff, breaks his head, and smashes his face.	When I was a lad, a pretty face was all it took for someone to get in my head, and I´d fill pages of lovelorn letters to them.	2	3	ガン	かお	顔 (かお)
1854	ought	Tu	須	ought, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	45	Shape . . . head. This is the only time that shape is placed to the left of its relative element, the head.		Why, I OUGHT to RESHAPE your HEAD...	Since this Kanji is exceptional, the shape ought to be on the left side. Got that into your head?	JH	1	ス、シュ	すべから.く、すべし、ひげ、まつ、もち.いる、もと.める	
1855	swell	Bành	膨	swell, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, shape	16	45	Part of the body . . . drum . . . shape. Compare expand (Frame 1199).		An injured body part may swell. It will begin to throb like a bass drum and will change shape.	Which part of your body can change shape and, when it does, swells up and throbs like a drumb? Hmmm...	JH	1	ボウ	ふく.らむ、ふく.れる	膨らむ (ふく.らむ), 膨れる (ふく.れる)
1856	visit	Tham, sâm	参	nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape	8	45	Elbow . . . St. Bernard dog . . . shape.		I´m going to visit my grandpa in the hospital. He broke his elbow, and it became really big and contorted into a weird shape. I hope he will be all right!	Whenever the postman has to pay a visit to this place, he brings an elbow-shaped thingy that he throws to the St. Bernard.	4	3	サン、シン	まい.る、まい-、まじわる、みつ	参る (まい.る)
1857	wretched	Thảm	惨	wretched, Freud, state of mind, nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape	11	45	A state of mind . . . visit.		Whenever I have to visit the relatives... that puts me in one hell of a wretched state of mind.	Data feels wretched because he has no family to visit.	JH	1	サン、ザン	みじ.め、いた.む、むご.い	惨劇 (さんげき), 悲惨 (ひさん), 陰惨 (いんさん), 惨め (みじ.め)
1858	discipline	Tu (tu luyện)	修	discipline, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, shape	10	45	Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . shape.		Mr. T is a harsh taskmaster who will discipline you (beat you into shape) with his walking stick.	You may not have known it, but Mr. T is into discispline. Not just self discipline, in order to get into shape, but what he really likes is when the Task master spanks him with her walking stick. Don´t tell Mr. T I told you. I pity da fool, and da fool would be me!!!	5	1	シュウ、シュ	おさ.める、おさ.まる	修飾 (しゅうしょく), 修養 (しゅうよう), 改修 (かいしゅう), 修まる (おさ.まる), 修める (おさ.める)
1859	rare	Trân	珍	rare, king, jewel, ball, parasol, umbrella, shape	9	45	Jewel . . . umbrella . . . shape.		It's rare to see the king carrying his own parasol - typically he gets one of his attendants to do it for him (thanks to Katsuo for umbrella + shape = parasol and to Peppi for the story idea).	The king has a really rare umbrella, it can change shape.	JH	2	チン	めずら.しい、たから	珍しい (めずら.しい)
1860	checkup	Chẩn	診	check up, say, words, keitai, mouth, parasol, umbrella, shape	12	45	Words . . . umbrella . . . shape. The key word refers to a medical examination.		"At my last check-up, the doctor said to me: ""Start carrying a parasol, or you might get skin cancer. You've been tanning too much!"" [Umbrella over shape = parasol]."	The doctor at my checkup was expressing words of concern about my umbrella shaped gut.	JH	1	シン	み.る	診る (み.る)
1861	sentence	Văn	文	sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly	4	45	Under the familiar top hat we see a crisscross pattern or design, like that found on woodwork or garments. This should make an ugly enough image to help remember it. It can be associated with sentence by thinking of a sentence as a grammatical pattern.	* The primitive meaning for this character will be plaid, the familiar crisscross pattern frequently used in textiles.	A twist on greenapple: The teacher puts a tophat on all pupils with gramatically correct sentences, while the rest are left with a big red X on their homework.	The teacher in the tophat puts an X on all the grammatically incorrect sentences.	1	4	ブン、モン	ふみ、あや	文学 (ぶんがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 作文 (さくぶん), 文 (ふみ)
1862	vis-à-vis	Đối (đối diện, phản đối)	対	vis-a-vis, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, glue	7	45	Plaid . . . glue.		When sitting vis-a-vis, Scots will glue their kilt down to avoid embaressment.	The word vis-a-vis is like sentence glue, it kind of joins sentences together.	3	3	タイ、ツイ	あいて、こた.える、そろ.い、つれあ.い、なら.ぶ、むか.う	対立 (たいりつ), 絶対 (ぜったい), 反対 (はんたい)
1863	family crest	Văn (hoa văn)	紋	family crest, thread, spiderman, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly	10	45	Thread . . . plaid.		Who knew that Spiderman was Scottish! He has sewn his family crest onto his uniform.	A family crest sown on to a garment with thread sometimes has a Latin sentence as a motto.	JH	1	モン		
1864	mosquito	Văn	蚊	mosquito, insect, sentence, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly	10	45	Insect . . . plaid.		The mosquito (an insect) knows only one sentence: Bzzzzz.	Mosquitoes are the insect who love Scots in plaid kilts because it makes for easy access to the best parts.	JH	1	ブン	か	
1866	adjusted	Tề	斉	adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers	8	45	Plaid . . . fenceposts . . . two. Do not confuse with just so (Frame 414).		The Scotsman goalkeeper adjusted himself. He reached down and adjusted the two things between his skinny fencepost legs.	"HINT: this kanji as a primitive can mean goalkeeper. The ""fence posts"" are goalposts, and the two goalkeepers wear plaid uniforms (this kanji also means uniform as in even), making them uniform with each other and distinguishing them as goalkeepers from the rest of the team."	JH	1	セイ、サイ	そろ.う、ひと.しい、ひと.しく、あたる、はやい	
1867	dose	Tê (dịch tễ)	剤	dose, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers, sword, sabre, saber	10	45	Adjust . . . saber. Think of this as a dose of medicine.		When my medicine dose is way too large, I adjust it by cutting it into smaller pieces with my saber.	We had to adjust his dose slightly, after he went on a rampage with a sabre.	JH	1	ザイ、スイ、セイ	かる、けず.る	
1868	finish	Tế (tiếp tế)	済	finish, water, water droplets, water pistol, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers	11	45	Water . . . adjust. Do not confuse with complete (Frame 101), end (Frame 1452), or perfect (Frame 199).		When the goalkeeper finishes the game, he drinks a lot of water and adjusts himself.	Finish him! Subzero adjusts the water in your body and crushes you into a few million pieces.	6	3	サイ、セイ	す.む、-ず.み、-ずみ、す.まない、す.ます、-す.ます、すく.う、な.す、わたし、わた.る	済ます (す.ます), 済む (す.む)
1869	purification	Trai	斎	purification, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, fenceposts, cabers, altar, show, two, small	11	45	"Plaid . . . fenceposts . . . altar. This is a ""religious"" purification, which distinguishes it from the simple kanji for pure (Frame 1659)."		"An exorcism, or ""purification"" of the soul. The possessed girl is tied to two posts next to the altar, her head spinning around and around. Then the priest says the required sentence: ""The power of Christ compels you!"""	Kind of vulgar, but here the SCOTSMAN got tired of adjusting himself so decided try PURIFICATION. Sadly, he did it by straddling the ALTAR with his skinny LEGS.	JH	1	サイ	とき、つつし.む、ものいみ、い.む、いわ.う、いつ.く	
1870	solemn	Túc (nghiêm túc)	粛	solemn, rake, fenceposts, cabers, rice	11	45	Rake . . . rice . . . fenceposts. Take special care to draw this character in the same order as the primitive. Note too, that the fourth stroke for rice is already taken care of by the fourth stroke of rake.		Even though it´s a maddening task, the monks stay solemn as they rake rice between the fenceposts.	Note: This is not sieve as it has a full rice and not rice grains and the hook is missing from rake. Also the given stroke order is incorrect (fenceposts should come last).	JH	1	シュク、スク	つつし.む	
1871	bases	Túc	塁	bases, rice field, brains, sparkler, soil, dirt, ground	12	45	The kanji of this frame refers to the four bases that are placed at the corners of a baseball infield. The elements: field . . . sparkler . . . ground.		Playing baseball in a rice field with sparklers stuck into the ground to act as bases.	The traditional New Year´s baseball game in Japan is held at midnight in a rice field. They stick sparklers in the ground for the bases so they can be seen, and to be more festive.	JH	1	ルイ、ライ、スイ	とりで	
1872	music	Lạc, nhạc	楽	music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood	13	45	Dove . . . sparkler . . . tree.		Zelda: Ocarina of Time - The white sparkly thing is Navi. She´s hovering/dancing around a tree to the legendary Lost Woods music.	There we were at the concert...her voice was like a dove...her dress sparkled...then suddenly, a tree fell on her.....	2	4	ガク、ラク、ゴウ	たの.しい、たの.しむ、この.む	楽隊 (がくたい), 楽器 (がっき), 音楽 (おんがく), 楽しい (たの.しい), 楽しむ (たの.しむ)
1873	medicine	Dược	薬	medicine, flowers, music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood	16	45	Flowers . . . music.		New-age medicine involves using things like music and flowers (aromatherapy) as treatment.	Oh man, this medicinal marijuana is making me hear MUSIC and see FLOWERS everywhere...	3	3	ヤク	くすり	薬 (くすり)
1874	ratio	Xuất	率	ratio, mysterious, question mark, top hat, cocoon, sparkler, ten, needle	11	45	Mysterious . . . sparkler . . . ten. Do not confuse with proportion (Frame 1673).		Keep separate from proportion. Gandalf is trying to adjust the aspect ratio of his monitor from 4:3 to 16:9 so that he can watch Lord of the Rings in widescreen format. He's poking around the inside of his monitor with a magnesium needle when he causes a short circuit which sets his needle on fire making the needle look just like a sparkler.	It´s quite mysterious how each sparkler gives of sparkles at a precise ratio of ten to one. Physicists have been studying this effect for decades, known as the Sparkler Effect, and using it to explain why stars look like sparklers in the night sky.	5	1	ソツ、リツ、シュツ	ひき.いる	率先 (そっせん), 引率 (いんそつ), 軽率 (けいそつ), 率いる (ひき.いる)
1875	astringent	Sáp	渋	astringent, water, water droplets, water pistol, stop, footprint, sparkler	11	45	Water . . . footprint . . . sparkler.		If you eat something astringent water will stop the sparkly sensation in your mouth.	"I think that Heisig meant this as the ""slightly bitter but fresh"" meaning that it can have to describe foods like lemons (しぶい). So imagine a guy trying a cocktail (water), feeling like he´s been kicked in the face (footprint) and sparks are flying from his tongue. ´How did it taste?´. ´Hmm, yes, slightly bitter, but fresh""."	JH	1	ジュウ、シュウ	しぶ、しぶ.い、しぶ.る	渋 (しぶ), 渋い (しぶ.い), 渋る (しぶ.る)
1876	vicarious	Nhiếp (kiêm, thay)	摂	vicarious, finger, fingers, ear, sparkler	13	45	Fingers . . . ear . . . sparkler. Do not confuse with substitute (Frame 1080).		Now that I´m a responsible adult, I have to get my vicarious thrills from watching stupid people put sparklers up to their ears and burn their fingers.	I put my fingers in my ears to avoid going deaf while getting a vicarious thrill from watching kids light off sparklers and fireworks on Chinese New Year.	JH	1	セツ、ショウ	おさ.める、かね.る、と.る	
1877	center	Ương (trung ương)	央	center, large, St. Bernard, box body	5	45	The elements depict a St. Bernard with its head and paws keeping their stick-like form, but with the middle or center of its body filled out in a box-like shape.		A person with a big mouth wants to be the center of attention.	The center of a dog´s universe is his mouth: bark, eat, bite. What a life! RTK2:　オウ　中央　ちゅうおう(center)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group　(ｴｲ): 英1741　 映1742.	3	2	オウ		
1878	England	Anh	英	England, flowers, centre, center, large, St. Bernard	8	45	Flowers . . . center. This is another abbreviation used to identify a country by the pronunciation of the kanji.		England was once the flowering center of civilization.	England is a country where people think they´re the flower at the center of the world. (a description that would fit China much better.. 中華).	4	4	エイ	はなぶさ	
1879	reflect	Ảnh, ánh	映	reflect, sun, day, centre, center, large, St. Bernard	9	45	Sun . . . center.		In the solar system, the Sun is the central source of all light, everything else just reflects it.	A solar power plant consists of thousands of mirrors reflecting the sun´s rays, concentrating the energy on a focal point at the centre. See here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_Two.	6	4	エイ	うつ.る、うつ.す、は.える、-ば.え	映す (うつ.す), 映る (うつ.る), 映える (は.える)
1880	red	Xích	赤	red, soil, dirt, ground, sword, dagger, small	7	45	Ground . . . dagger . . . little. The two strokes of the dagger take the place of the middle stroke of little.	* As a primitive on the left, this kanji keeps the same form. Elsewhere, the first two strokes are abbreviated to a single dot. This latter form will take the meaning of an apple.	He was stabbed with a dagger, and little drops of red blood dropped onto the ground.	There was red all over the soil after Little Red Riding Hood plunged a dagger into the wolf. Those two dots we see are wolfies animal legs we see, by the way (a la smithsonian).	1	4	セキ、シャク	あか、あか-、あか.い、あか.らむ、あか.らめる	赤道 (せきどう), 赤貧 (せきひん), 発赤 (はつあか), 赤 (あか), 赤い (あか.い), 赤らむ (あか.らむ), 赤らめる (あか.らめる)
1881	pardon	Xá	赦	pardon, red, taskmaster	11	45	Red . . . taskmaster.		The student blushed until his face was red, so the schoolmaster decided to pardon him.	There aren´t many pardons given by the Red taskmasters in China. 80% of the world´s death penalties are performed there...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シャ　赦免　しゃめん(pardon).	JH	1	シャ		
1882	unusual	Biến	変	unusual, apple, walking legs	9	45	Apple . . . walking legs.		It´s quite unusual and abnormal to see an apple with walking legs running away from the person who wants to eat it!	"Imagine an apple on walking legs on stage singing ""It´s not unusual to be loved by anyone"" (Tom Jones). Keyword can be confused with uncommon (#1797)."	4	3	ヘン	か.わる、か.わり、か.える	変える (か.える), 変わる (か.わる)
1883	tracks	Tích	跡	tracks, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, apple	13	45	Wooden leg . . . apple.		Pirate pokes the tip of his wooden leg into an apple to disguise his tracks.	To hide his distinctive wood-leg tracks, this pirate is throwing apples after his tracks in order for animals to come and confuse his tracks.	JH	2	セキ	あと	跡 (あと)
1884	barbarian	Man (dã man)	蛮	barbarian, apple, insect	12	45	Apple . . . insects.		The barbarian picks an apple from above and eats it even though there is a worm (insect) in it.	Barbarians eat apples with worms still in them.	JH	1	バン	えびす	
1885	romance	Luyến	恋	romance, apple, heart	10	45	Apple . . . heart.		The romance between Snow White and Prince Charming started when Snow White took a bite of poison apple and her heart stopped.	A childhood romance: a boy takes a red apple to school to try to win the heart of his beloved.	JH	2	レン	こ.う、こい、こい.しい	恋う (こ.う), 恋 (こい), 恋しい (こい.しい)
1886	gulf	Loan	湾	gulf, water, water droplets, water pistol, apple, bow	12	45	Water . . . apple . . . bow.		In his most daring feat, William tell used his bow to shoot an apple off the head of his son across the water of the gulf.	An army of archers must cross a gulf of water. Fortunately there are millions of apple trees growing in the cliffs above the gulf. The archers use their bows to shoot down apple after apple, which all fall into the water and slowly fill up the the gulf until the archer soliders can cross on foot.	JH	2	ワン	いりえ	
1887	yellow	Hoàng, huỳnh (hoàng kim, sắc vàng)	黄	yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight	11	45	Salad . . . sprout . . . animal legs.		The salad did not look very appetizing... The sprouts were yellow and there were animal legs sticking out of it.	I order a salad with sprouts. I´m asked if I´d like to add chicken. Yes please. My salad then arrives . . . . topped with these horribly gnarled yellow things. Chicken feet! (animal legs) ugh.	2	2	コウ、オウ	き、こ-	黄葉 (こうよう), 黄 (き)
1888	sideways	Hoành	横	sideways, tree, wood, yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight	15	45	Tree . . . yellow.		A tree went all yellow. It died and fell down, ending up sideways.	In a horrible accident, a yellow schoolbus gets wrapped sideways around a tree.	3	3	オウ	よこ	横 (よこ)
1889	grasp	Bả	把	grasp, finger, fingers, mosaic	7	45	Fingers . . . mosaic.		Japanese censorship laws require pornos to use a mosaic screen, so you can´t see what the porno chick is grasping with her fingers (but you can assume, neetch).	Your fingers grasp the Rubic´s cube... if only your brain could too.	JH	1	ハ、ワ		
1890	color	Sắc	色	color, bound up, mosaic	6	45	Bound up . . . mosaic.		Bound up in the Rubik´s cube are the 6 different colours.	Ever look closely at mosaics? They contain a bunch of images bound up into a larger one. It seems amazing until you realize that the only quality of the smaller images that really matters is their colour.	2	4	ショク、シキ	いろ	原色 (げんしょく), 特色 (とくしょく), 物色 (ぶっしょく), 色 (いろ)
1891	discontinue	Tuyệt (đoạn tuyệt)	絶	discontinue, thread, spiderman, colour, color, bound up, mosaic	12	45	Thread . . . color.		Spiderman has decided to discontinue his red color suit in favor of the black one, it looks way cooler.	As times move on and fashion tastes inevitably change, threads of certain colors often get discontinued.	5	3	ゼツ	た.える、た.やす、た.つ	絶える (た.える), 絶つ (た.つ), 絶やす (た.やす)
1892	GLOSSY	Diêm	艶	glossy, bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth, colour, color, bound up, mosaic	19	45	Bountiful . . . color.		To print something with bountiful colour, they use glossy paper.	Glossy prints bring out bountiful colors more so than matte...　　　　　RTK2:　エン　艶聞　えんぶん(love affair).	JH	1	エン	つや、なま.めかしい、あで.やか、つや.めく、なま.めく	艶 (つや)
1893	fertilizer	Phì	肥	fertilizer, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, mosaic	8	45	Flesh . . . mosaic.		PART OF YOUR BODY excretes something that is commonly used for FERTILIZER. Sometimes this process is slow, so you solve a RUBIK´S CUBE while you sit and wait.	If you´re sick, a part of your body may produce fertilizer that makes a colorful mosaic.	5	1	ヒ	こ.える、こえ、こ.やす、こ.やし、ふと.る	肥える (こ.える), 肥やし (こ.やし), 肥やす (こ.やす), 肥 (こえ)
1894	sweet	Cam	甘	sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket	5	46	This kanji is a pictograph of a small wicker basket. (The extra short stroke in the middle helps keep it distinct from the character for twenty.) All one needs to add is some image of sweet cakes or breads carried in the basket, and the union of picture and meaning is complete. Take care not to confuse with confectionary (Frame 1203).	* As a primitive, the pictograph's meaning of a wicker basket is used, a small one like the kind used for picnics.	Little red riding hood is carrying around a wicker basket filled with sweet baked cookies for granny.	Girls are kinda sweet and sexy until they reach their twenties. So 20 minus ONE.	JH	2	カン	あま.い、あま.える、あま.やかす、うま.い	甘い (あま.い), 甘える (あま.える), 甘やかす (あま.やかす)
1895	navy blue	Cám (xanh đậm)	紺	navy blue, thread, spiderman, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket	11	46	Thread . . . wicker basket.		Thanks raulir - As many Japanese perverts know, navy blue threads conceal school girl sweetness underneath.	Much like Violet Beauregarde from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Spiderman failed to heed Willy Wonka´s warnings, and upon chewing on the 3 course meal chewing gum turned a very navy shade of navy blue.	JH	1	コン		
1896	so-and-so	Mô (~nào đó)	某	so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood	9	46	The key word here refers to the adjective for an unspecified person or thing. Its elements: wicker basket . . . tree.		I had the same idea as fuabrisu. A generic person is described here as having body sort of like a tree trunk and head sort of like a wicker basket.	Two girls with a lollipop in a tree gossiping´ so-and so did this.´ ´really? so-and what did she do´ ´ o she is sooo wrong..´.	JH	1	ボウ	それがし、なにがし	
1897	conspire	Mưu	謀	conspire, say, words, keitai, mouth, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood	16	46	Words . . . so-and-so.		I imagine a clique of catty girls conspiring against a another girl...they are exchanging lots of words, chatting about how so-and-so girl is now up to such-and-such (gasp!), and how they will spread the word about it.	"You might hear the words of someone conspiring... ""If you do so-and-so...""."	JH	1	ボウ、ム	はか.る、たばか.る、はかりごと	謀略 (ぼうりゃく), 無謀 (むぼう), 首謀者 (しゅぼうしゃ), 謀る (はか.る)
1898	mediator	Môi (môi giới)	媒	mediator, woman, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood	12	46	Woman . . . so-and-so.		In a divorce, the woman needs a mediator because she won't talk to that so-and-so. Imagine the woman on the ground and the so-and-so up in the tree, and the poor mediator climbing up and down, trying to mediate their fight.	The two little gossiping girls with their lollipops are having a fight. Now an adult woman (mom or teacher) has to come between them an serve as a mediator.	JH	1	バイ	なこうど	
1899	deceit	Khi	欺	deceit, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, lack, yawn	12	46	Bushel basket . . . yawn.		Kasparov practices deceit by grabbing your rook while pretending to yawn.	Every day, a smuggler takes bushel baskets on donkeys across the border. But the border patrols can never arrest him for lack of evidence no matter how much they search the bushel baskets: they can´t find whatever he is smuggling. What was his deceit? He was smuggling donkeys!	JH	1	ギ	あざむ.く	欺く (あざむ.く)
1900	chess piece	Kỳ	棋	chess piece, tree, wood, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight	12	46	Tree . . . bushel basket.		Chess piece = wooden rook.	Ever seen those huge chess games in parks? The large wooden chess pieces need to be carted in a shopping trolley.	JH	1	キ	ご	
1901	national flag	Kỳ (quốc kì)	旗	national flag, banner, compass, direction reclining, lying down, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight	14	46	Banner . . . bushel basket.		The United Republic of Chess' national flag is actually a banner with a rook, that way they can hang it at every tournament.	The national flag is the banner of a country; stored in a whicker basket at night and taken out to the flagpole in the morning.	4	1	キ	はた	旗 (はた)
1902	period	Kì	期	period, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	12	46	Bushel basket . . . month. As the month indicates, this has to do with periods of time.		The slowest remote chess game ever: a one month period between every move.	The girl´s panties are all in the bushel basket as it´s that time of the month again... her period.	3	3	キ、ゴ		期間 (きかん), 期待 (きたい), 予期 (よき)
1903	Go	Kỳ	碁	go, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, stone, rock	13	46	Bushel basket . . . stones. The key word refers to the Japanese game played with black and white colored stones on a lined board.		Go is chess played with stones.	The ignorant gaijin put a rook on top of his opponent´s stone when playing Go, much to the consternation of the Japanese players.	JH	1	ゴ		
1904	fundamentals	Cơ (cơ bản)	基	fundamentals, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, soil, dirt, ground	11	46	Bushel basket . . . soil.		Fundamentals of chess: use the rooks to protect your ground.	A Bushel-basket full of earth contains the fundementals of farming. i.e. earth.	5	1	キ	もと、もとい	基 (もと), 基 (もとい)
1905	tremendously	Thậm (thậm chí, rất, lắm)	甚	tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs	9	46	Bushel basket . . . equal. Note how the first stroke of equal doubles up with the sixth stroke of the bushel basket, and how the animal legs of the bushel basket are dropped to make room for the human legs of equal.		It´s a tremendous match between the two chess-players. They are clearly eachother´s equal.	These two bushel baskets are tremendously huge. But not only they are huge, they are also perfectly equal in size.	JH	1	ジン	はなは.だ、はなは.だしい	甚だ (はなは.だ), 甚だしい (はなは.だしい)
1906	intuition	Khám (dò xét, tri giác)	勘	intuition, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs, power, muscle, arnold	11	46	Tremendously . . . muscle.		Intuition is a tremendously powerful resource of the mind.	"Using Zareon´s story for the previous frame ""tremendously""... The two chessplayers who are eachother´s equals are so good at chess that they don´t have to even move a muscle. Their brain power does it for them. Furthermore, they don´t even have to think, really. Their intuition takes control. This is: extreme chess."	JH	1	カン		
1907	withstand	Kham	堪	withstand, soil, dirt, ground, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs	12	46	Soil . . . tremendously.		Because I hid myself behind a huge dirt barrier I dug, I was able to withstand the tremendous nuclear blast.	Plain old soil can withstand tremendous amounts of pressure.	JH	1	カン、タン	た.える、たま.る、こ.らえる、こた.える	堪える (た.える)
1908	precious	Quý, quí	貴	precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	12	46	Purse . . . shells.		"Frodo kept the precious in the purse but did a switch with some worthless shells when he went to sleep. Heres gollum opening the purse ""ahhh my preciousssssss.....why you m***** *****!!!!!."	Inside your purse is all of your money and your keys (き) etc. All of your precious valuables.	6	1	キ	たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ	貴い (たっと.い), 貴ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 貴い (とうと.い), 貴ぶ (とうと.ぶ)
1909	bequeath	Di	遺	bequeath, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, road	15	46	Precious . . . road.		"Bilbo bequeathes the ""PRECIOUS"" to Frodo, who will carry it on the long ROAD to Mordor."	"Bequeath is an odd old word, isn´t it? Basically, it just deals with how I want my precious possessions dealt out, after I die, later down the road. ""Being of sound, but antiquated, mind, I bequeath this to you!""."	6	1	イ、ユイ	のこ.す	遺棄 (いき), 遺産 (いさん), 遺失 (いしつ)
1910	dispatch (phái tới)	Khiến	遣	dispatch, purse, in, one, floor, maestro without baton, road	13	46	This kanji takes away the maestro's baton and replaces it with a purse. The road represents his being dispatched on his way a san obvious misfit. You will remember that when he did have his baton, he was being chased down the road by his fans. All of which shows what a difference a single stroke can make!		Dispatch all cars and chase the maestro! He's gone crazy and stolen a ladies purse!	"Apart from meaning DISPATCH, this kanji can mean ""to give (to someone lower than you),"" ""to do,"" and to even ""have intercourse."" STORY: The MAESTRO is on the ROAD waiting for a pimp to DISPATCH some new ladies (lower than him) so that he can GIVE THEM money from his PURSE and then DO IT with them. Where is the MAESTRO´S baton? You don´t wanna know..."	JH	1	ケン	つか.う、-つか.い、-づか.い、つか.わす、や.る	遣う (つか.う), 遣わす (つか.わす)
1912	dance	Vũ	舞	dance, reclining, lying down, tub, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening	15	46	The top two strokes show someone reclining, and the next six are a pictograph of an oaken tub ribbed with metal strips, like the kind once used for bathing. At the bottom, the sunglasses round off the character.		The yakuza boss reclines in the oaken bathtub wearing his shades while his personal harem dances naked for him.	I learned nothingness (#1775) first because it is a very common kanji. Probably easier to think of this kanji in that context. Attractive dancers should dance wearing nothing but sunglasses.	JH	3	ブ	ま.う、-ま.う、まい	舞い (ま.い), 舞う (ま.う)
1913	nothingness	Vô, mô	無	nothingness, reclining, lying down, tub, oven-fire, barbecue	12	46	This character is the Japanese character for the supreme philosophical principle of much Oriental thought: nothingness. Make use of the oaken tub from the previous frame, and add to that the oven fire at the bottom.		When I enter the wooden tub heated by flames in the onsen, I can let all my worries slip away and be submerged into nothingness.	In a hot tub you can relax and have your stress vanish into nothingness.	4		ム、ブ	な.い	無名 (むめい), 無理 (むり), 皆無 (かいむ), 無い (な.い)
1914	association	Tổ (tổ chức)	組	association, thread, spiderman, shelf, my bookshelves	11	47	Thread . . . shelf.		The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.	Watch this: http://i146.photobucket.com/albums/r249/sith_lord10/updated%20showroom%20july/s29.jpg The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.(Zactacular).	2	3	ソ	く.む、くみ、-ぐみ	組む (く.む), 組 (くみ)
1915	coarse	Thô	粗	coarse, rice, shelf, my bookshelves	11	47	Rice . . . shelf.		Ugh, why does this shelf feel so coarse? Because it´s made of rice, of coarse! Get it? Of coarse?? Hahahahahahahahahah god i hate my life.	Refined rice [1535] can only be found in exclusive grocery shops. Coarse rice by contrast fills the supermarket shelves - don't go looking for anything else there.	JH	1	ソ	あら.い、あら-	粗い (あら.い)
1916	tariff	Tô (tô thuế)	租	tariff, wheat, cereal, shelf, my bookshelves	10	47	Wheat . . . shelf.		According to Henshall, this kanji originally represented the harvested rice (the wheat primitive) that farmers paid as a tithe. Its meaning today would seem to be very similar. Imagine the farmer putting aside some of his harvested wheat on a shelf in order to pay the tariff to his lord.	The EU and US impose such high tariffs on food imports that third world wheat (the most basic of staples) never reaches first world supermarket shelves.	JH	1	ソ		
1918	ancestor	Tổ	祖	ancestor, altar, shelf, my bookshelves	9	47	Altar . . . shelf.		The ancestor worship is so common in Daoist and buddhist countries that you can buy tiny altars to put on the shelves, one for each deceased family member.	The urns of ancestors are kept on shelves next to the altar.	5	3	ソ		
1919	thwart	Trở	阻	thwart, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shelf, my bookshelves	8	47	Pinnacle . . . shelf.		Keeping porn on the pinnacle of a bookshelf can thwart snooping kids (thanks bodhisamaya).	The shortness of the Japanese thwarts their attempts to reach the topmost (pinnacle) shelf without grabbing a chair.	JH	1	ソ	はば.む	阻む (はば.む)
1920	investigate	Tra	査	investigate, tree, wood, shelf, my bookshelves	9	47	Tree . . . shelf.		A whole team of cops is sent to investigate how a tree could grow on top of a shelf with no soil or water.	The result of the inverstigation of the missing Trees? Why, most of them had become shelfs!	5	2	サ		
1921	help	Trợ	助	help, shelf, my bookshelves, power, muscle, arnold	7	47	Shelf . . . power. The reason why the shelf appears on the left here is that the right side is the normal position for power, the stronger primitive. Indeed, the only exception in all the kanji is the character for add (Frame 932).		HELP! Someone´s pinned under this bookshelf and it´s gonna take a lot of muscle to lift it off!	Can you help me move this shelf? I don´t have the muscle to do it alone.	3	3	ジョ	たす.ける、たす.かる、す.ける、すけ	助 (すけ), 助かる (たす.かる), 助ける (たす.ける)
1922	best regards	Nghi (thích nghi, tiện nghi)	宜	best regards, house, shelf, my bookshelves	8	47	This kanji, a polite way of expressing one's best regards to another. Its elements: house . . . shelf.		It seems like every time my Japanese friends send me their best regards, they accompany them with a gift. Over time, I´ve gotten so many that I had to buy a second house which contains nothing but several fancy shelves. Each shelf is dedicated to a certain friend of mine and contains every last one of their presents.	We have a shelf in our house where we put Christmas cards from people who send best regards for the holiday season...　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ギ　便宜主義　べんぎしゅぎ(opportunism).	JH	1	ギ	よろ.しい、よろ.しく	
1923	tatami mat	Điệp (chiếu ngủ)	畳	tatami mat, rice field, brains, crown, shelf, my bookshelves	12	47	Rice field . . . crown . . . shelf.		The king is peacefully sleeping on his new tatami mat when all of a sudden a shelf falls over and kills him. You can see his crown poking out and the brains splatter out the top of his head from all the pressure.	Making tatami mats from rice field waste was Japan´s crowning achievement, but for some reason other countries just shelved the idea.	JH	2	ジョウ、チョウ	たた.む、たたみ、かさ.なる	畳む (たた.む), 畳 (たたみ)
1924	row	Tịnh (xếp hàng)	並	row	8	47	This character represents a slightly stylized duplication of the kanji for stand up. By lengthening the sixth and seventh strokes, you will see how this is done.	* The primitive meaning remains the same as that of the kanji, but special attention has to be given to the varieties of shape this element can undergo. It is the most difficult one you will meet in this book. When it appears BENEATH its relative primitive, the top three strokes are omitted, though the third horizontal stroke may be doubled up with the bottom horizontal stroke of the element above it. ATOP its relative primitive, it can keep its kanji shape. When it does not, the top three strokes are removed and all of them are replaced BELOW the primitive's bottom line. We shall acknowledge this latter transformation by changing its meaning to upside down in a row.	This is a simplification of 竝, a ideogram of two people standing in a row.	"Hint : as a primitive I use the image of a rowing boat. In a rowing boat people sit in rows, but also side-by-side (another meaning of the kanji), working together (yet another meaning of this kanji). Note : there will also be a kanji for ""rowboat"" coming at frame 1876. The rowing boat is associated with the sport, and is a primitive, while the kanji for ""rowboat"" has a generic meaning of ""a small boat"". In any case, the kanji for ""rowboat"" will not appear as a primitive in the book."	6	2	ヘイ、ホウ	な.み、なら.べる、なら.ぶ、なら.びに	並 (なみ), 並びに (なら.びに), 並ぶ (なら.ぶ), 並べる (なら.べる)
1925	universal	Phổ (phổ thông)	普	universal, row, sun, day	12	47	Row . . . sun.		People at Universal Studios wait in rows so long that the sun goes down.	To me, row is way too close to file (#812), so I´m adopting Fab´s meaning of rowboat from the previous frame. Universal Studios went through a number of logo animations before settling on the one they are most famous for: the letters UNIVERSAL orbiting the Earth. One of the most ridiculous of these involved a man rowing himself in a boat around the sun.	JH	2	フ	あまね.く、あまねし	
1926	musical score	Phổ (phổ nhạc)	譜	musical score, say, words, keitai, mouth, universal, row, sun, day	19	47	Words . . . universal.		Musical scores are in a universal language.	A musical score can be read, but not like ordinary words. Music is a universal language.	JH	1	フ		
1927	damp	Thấp	湿	damp, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, row	12	47	Water . . . sun . . . row.		You first wash you clothes with water and wring them until they are just damp before hanging them in a row under the sun to dry. If you don´t wring them damp first they will take days to dry!	If your things are damp, lay them up in a row under the sun and let the water evaporate. (thx Raichu)...　RTK2:　シツ　湿気　しっけ(humidity).	JH	2	シツ、シュウ	しめ.る、しめ.す、うるお.う、うるお.す	湿す (しめ.す), 湿る (しめ.る)
1928	appear	Hiển	顕	appear, sun, day, row, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	47	Sun . . . row . . . heads.		One day a row of Suns appeared in the sky, turning everyone's heads upwards.	Clouds were covering the sky for months now. Rows upon rows of people spent whole days with their heads turned upwards, waiting for sun to appear.	JH	1	ケン	あきらか、あらわ.れる	
1929	slender	Tiệm	繊	slender, thread, spiderman, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, row	17	47	Thread . . . Thanksgiving . . . row.		At the end of Thanksgiving it's tradition for everyone to stand in a row and measure their waist with a strip of thread. Whoever is the most slender wins the leftovers.	At the time of Thanksgiving, there´s a row of all sorts of food on the table, which you mustn´t eat if you want to stay as slender as a thread.	JH	1	セン		
1930	spirits	Linh	霊	spirits, rain, weather, two, row	15	47	"Rain . . . two . . . row. This character will refer only to the inhabitants of the ""spirit world,"" and not to moods or temperaments, for which we will learn another character in frame 2030."		After raining for two days in a row, you plead with the SPIRITS for some relief. (Adapted from johnskb,21-5-2006).	When it rains, two worlds come together and spirits can be seen in the forest, dancing in a row.	JH	1	レイ、リョウ	たま	霊感 (れいかん), 霊魂 (れいこん), 霊長類 (れいちょうるい), 霊 (たま)
1931	profession	Nghiệp	業	business, profession, upside down in a row, not yet, tree, wood	13	47	In a row upside down . . . not yet.		A truly gruesome profession: an abattoir worker. Where the carcasses are upside down in a row that have not yet been cut up into sausages and steaks.	A bunch of kids are hanging upside down in a row on the monkeybars. Naturally, they haven't chosen a profession, at least not yet.	3	4	ギョウ、ゴウ	わざ	業績 (ぎょうせき), 職業 (しょくぎょう), 卒業 (そつぎょう), 業 (わざ)
1932	slap	Bạc	撲	slap, finger, fingers, upside down in a row, husband	15	47	Fingers . . . upside down in a row . . . husbands.		After a row husbands take their wives upsides down over the knee and slap them with their fingers on the bottom (if that doesn´t get me banned…).	Here we have badly behaving HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. Each wife approaches her HUSBAND, berates him, gives him a sharp SLAP in the face and, Three-Stooges style, pokes him in the eyes with her FINGERS.	JH	1	ボク		
1933	me	Bộc (đầy tớ)	僕	me, person, upside down in a row, husband	14	47	"This key word is yet another synonym for ""I,"" somewhat more familiar in tone. As a rule, it is a word that boys and men use to refer to themselves. Its elements: person . . . husbands . . . in a row upside down."		"Building on johnskb: Although it goes against the Heisig method, this story is a lot easier to remember when you know it's the kanji for ""boku."" Males usually use either ""boku"" or ""ore"" (instead of ""watashi"") to refer themselves. ""Boku"" is slightly boyish and soft; ""ore"" is rough & tough. Mr. T would definitely use ""ore"" -- but when he's one of the husbands hung upside down in a row about to be punished by his wife, he puts on a sweet act and switches to ""boku"" when he pleads ""come on baby, it's ME!"""	Mr. T also finds himself as one of the HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. But when his wife comes up to punish him, he pleads, “It’s ME, Baby. I wasn’t behaving badly like these other foo’s.”.	JH	1	ボク	しもべ	
1934	together	Cộng	共	together, salad, animal legs, eight	6	47	Salad . . . animal legs.	* The primitive retains the meaning of together. Imagine things strung together like fish on a line, beads on a thread, or whatever. The main thing is to avoid putting them in a straight row, which would confound this element with the previous one. As we saw with bushel basket, this primitive can join its legs to the final horizontal stroke and stretch them to form an enclosure.	The character for (#1939) gave me the idea to use together as a primitive for Noah's Ark. Noah kept plenty of salad on board to entice the animals with their animal legs to scurry on board together, two by two.	The conjoined twins, who are always together, have trouble eating together because one is a vegetarian, eating salad and the other is a avid meat eater, eating chicken legs.[Thanks fuaburisu!].	4	3	キョウ	とも、とも.に、-ども	共 (とも)
1935	submit	Cung	供	submit, person, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight	8	47	Submit here is a transitive verb, meaning to offer or present. Its elements: person . . . strung together.		"Mr. T submits a resume together with his application. ""I pity da foo don't got no resume!"" he says."	When people are together and form a group, they suddenly submit their personal responsibility to the mob mentality.	6	3	キョウ、ク、クウ、グ	そな.える、とも、-ども	供給 (きょうきゅう), 提供 (ていきょう), 自供 (じきょう), 供える (そな.える), 供 (とも)
1936	uncommon	Dị	異	uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight	11	47	Brains . . . together.		Brains together with beauty is an uncommon combination.	Noah's Ark is so uncommonly large, he can even fit a rice field on top to feed the animals.	6	1	イ	こと、こと.なる、け	異 (こと)
1937	wing	Dực	翼	wing, feathers, wings, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight	17	47	Feathers . . . uncommon.		The thing about feathers is that they usually cover the entire bird. A creature with feathers only on its wings would be very uncommon.	WINGS without any FEATHERS would be an UNCOMMON site. Well, unless you like to eat chicken WINGS alot.	JH	1	ヨク	つばさ	翼 (つばさ)
1939	deluge	Hồng (hồng thuỷ)	洪	deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight	9	47	Water . . . strung together.		Lots of water coming together is called a deluge.	A real deluge of water, as if all water worked together, as if strung together haphazardly.	JH	1	コウ		
1940	harbor	Cảng	港	harbor, deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, scene, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, snake, self	12	47	Deluge . . . snakes.		During a deluge, all the poor snakes get washed into the harbour.	All throughout the deluge Noah had been kicking himself for forgetting to bring any snakes onto the Ark. It wasn´t until the deluge had finished, and Noah had brought the Ark safely back to the harbour that he realised that the snakes had been under the Ark all along.	3	3	コウ	みなと	港 (みなと)
1941	outburst	Bạo, bộc (bạo lực, bộc lộ)	暴	outburst, sun, day, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice	15	47	Sun . . . strung together . . . rice grains.		"Having spent all day stringing together grains of rice he suddenly had an outburst, ""I can take it any longer!"""	Noah was having an outburst after being at sea for 40 days and 40 nights and running out of rice grains to eat. Then the sun suddenly burst out in an outburst over the Ark and there was an outburst of cheering.	5	2	ボウ、バク	あば.く、あば.れる	暴言 (ぼうげん), 横暴 (おうぼう), 乱暴 (らんぼう), 暴く (あば.く), 暴れる (あば.れる)
1942	bomb	Bộc	爆	bomb, fire, outburst, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice	19	47	Fire . . . outburst.		Actually means explosion, like an outburst of fire.	Bombs make fiery outbursts. It´s almost too logical, this one.	JH	2	バク	は.ぜる	
1943	respect	Cung (cung kính)	恭	respect, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, valentine	10	47	Strung together . . . valentine.		If you wanna stay together you have to show your valentine respect.	"As I like Aretha Franklin's song ""R-E-S-P-E-C-T"", I cut out each of the letters from pieces of card, then string them all together and send it to her as a valentine."	JH	1	キョウ	うやうや.しい	恭しい (うやうや.しい)
1944	elect	Tuyển	選	elect, southeast, snake, self, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, road, snake2, self2	15	47	Two snakes . . . strung together . . . road.		You're driving on the road and you see two snakes together. You can't avoid both, so you have to elect which one gets run over.	Isn't this how the US presedential election works? You are given a choice between two snakes. Their politics are actually strung together but you get to feel as though you chose which one you want to lead you down the political road for the next four years. So which snake are you going to elect?	4	3	セン	えら.ぶ	選ぶ (えら.ぶ)
1945	Mr.	Điện (cung điện)	殿	Mr, flag, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	13	47	Flags . . . strung together . . . missile.		Mr. President in his palace, ordering missiles to be fired at a harmless enemy in order to unite us together under the flag.	Mr. President! We all stand here together under a national flag. One thing is certain: we´ll never give in. We are launching nuclear missiles now to implement mutually assured destruction protocol.	JH	2	デン、テン	との、-どの	殿堂 (でんどう), 宮殿 (きゅうでん), 貴殿 (きでん), 殿 (との), 殿 (どの)
1946	well	Tỉnh	井	well	4	48	Recalling that there are no circular strokes, and that the shape of the square and the square within a square (Frame 630) have already been used, it should be relatively easy to see how this character can be consider a pictograph of a well.		I nearly died by falling in a well. Actually, on two separate occasions. I´m glad to see they´ve added these fence posts. Now the well will be much safer.	Have you ever seen an old fashioned japanese well? == http://cruises.about.com/od/southeastasiacruise1/ig/Osaka-Japan/Ancient-Well-at-Osaka-Castle.htm.	JH	1	セイ、ショウ	い	油井 (ゆい), 市井 (しせい), 井 (い)
1948	surround	Vi (chu vi)	囲	surround, pent in, well	7	48	Well . . . pent in.		The village surrounded the well with a wall so kids wouldn´t fall in.	You get good surround sound when your pent-up in well.	4	2	イ	かこ.む、かこ.う、かこ.い	囲う (かこ.う), 囲む (かこ.む)
1949	till	Canh (canh tác)	耕	till, christmas tree, well	10	48	Christmas tree . . . well.		If you just grow your christmas tree in a well, there will be no need to till the soil.	A man was tilling a new plot to plant xmas trees but his tractor hit an old covered-up well and fell halfway in, he´s asking for a new tractor for xmas..	5	2	コウ	たがや.す	耕す (たがや.す)
1950	Asia	Á	亜	Asia, roman two, mouth	7	48	In this kanji, the abbreviation for Asia, you should be able to see the character for mouth behind the Roman numeral II.		In Asian countries, people use II chopsticks to get things into their mouths. Just imagine someone shoving a piece of sushi into their mouths with chopsticks.	A mouth barred up and not aloud to speak freely is the sign of asia (korea, China, pakistan etc).	JH	1	ア、アシア	つ.ぐ	
1951	bad	Ác	悪	bad, Asia, roman two, mouth, heart	11	48	Asia . . . heart.		Because Asian people started to eat Western food, their hearts became bad and they started having heart attacks.	Asian hearts are bad and evil. They invented so much martial arts: karate, judo, kungfu, muay thai, silat, etc... just to hurt each other. They torture their own people (China, North Korea). They torture other people (Japan in China and Korea). And they are able to hide all this behind their nice facade of kindness. Bad, bad Asians. (did i shatter some people´s ideas on Asia? my bad).	3	4	アク、オ	わる.い、わる-、あ.し、にく.い、-にく.い、ああ、いずくに、いずくんぞ、にく.む	悪事 (あくじ), 悪意 (あくい), 醜悪 (しゅうあく), 悪い (わる.い)
1952	circle	Viên	円	circle, yen	4	48	This kanji, also used for Yen, is one you are not likely to need to study formally, since you can hardly get around in Japan without it. The connection is that the yennies, like pennies, are circular in shape. In any case, the elements are: glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . one.		The shape of a Yen coin.	"A poor old man is almost killing himself trying to lift a huge glass hood with his cane (using it as a lever), to get to just one yen coin. Note : the kanji refers to a circular, round object, but also to the Japanese currency (pronounced ""en"")."	1	5	エン	まる.い、まる、まど、まど.か、まろ.やか	円い (まる.い)
1953	angle	Giác (tam giác)	角	angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two	7	48	Bound up . . . glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . two. If you write the character once, you will see why we avoided using the element for soil, which would prompt you to write it in improper order.	* As a primitive, imagine the tool used by draftsmen and carpenters to draw right-angles.	A museum display of two walking sticks bound together under a glass canopy, showing the first device used to measure an angle.	"The gates have been bound up together leaving no angle to get through...　RTK2:　カク　兎に角　とにかく(anyhow)　""horns on a rabbit""."	2	2	カク	かど、つの	角 (かど), 角 (つの)
1954	contact	Xúc	触	contact, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, insect	13	48	Angle . . . insect.		For insects to get in contact with each other, they need to place their antennae at just the right angle.	Wow, he threw that BOOMERANG with such skill, it made CONTACT with that INSECT in mid flight.	JH	2	ショク	ふ.れる、さわ.る、さわ	触る (さわ.る), 触れる (ふ.れる)
1955	unravel	Giải	解	unravel, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, sword, dagger, cow	13	48	Angle . . . dagger . . . cow.		Did you know that you can unravel a cow? If you stick the dagger in at exactly the correct angle, the whole cow will just unravel.	Unravel the mystery by determining at what ANGLE the SWORD went into the COW.	5	3	カイ、ゲ	と.く、と.かす、と.ける、ほど.く、ほど.ける、わか.る、さと.る	解決 (かいけつ), 解禁 (かいきん), 理解 (りかい), 解かす (と.かす), 解く (と.く), 解ける (と.ける)
1956	again	Tái	再	again, king, jewel, ball, belt	6	48	Jewel . . . with a belt hung on it. Note how the belt is drawn right after the first stroke of jewel.		The king has eaten too much and has to get a new belt again. See his fat rolls hanging over?	"This is a belt with a non-adjustable jeweled buckle. Everytime you go back to the leathersmith telling him to move the buckle because you´ve packed on a few pounds (but that this is the last time!), he says ""Again?!? Weren´t you just here last month?""."	5	2	サイ、サ	ふたた.び	再度 (さいど), 再選 (さいせん), 再出発 (さいしゅっぱつ), 再び (ふたた.び)
1957	lecture	Giảng	講	lecture, say, words, keitai, mouth, funnel, cone, celery, again	17	48	Words . . . funnel.		I have a funnel attached to my laptop that takes my prof´s lecture and puts the words into a text file. The bigger the funnel, the more accurate the conversion, so picture a bunch of laptops with large, unwieldy funnels attached to the USB port.	Image: a professor walking around with a funnel and simply pouring his words into each students head instead of a lecture. (Primitive: FUNNEL, who got the celery stuck in the funnel again?! You know it´s not supposed to be used for that!).	5	2	コウ		
1958	subscription	Cấu	購	subscription, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, funnel, cone, celery, again	17	48	Shells . . . funnel. The key word is meant to suggest magazine subscriptions and the like.		Subscription is like a money funnel, because the receiving end is small (just one company) and the other end is wide (the whole country).	My subscription to Money magazine came with a free coin funnel.	JH	1	コウ		
1959	posture	Cấu	構	posture, tree, wood, funnel, cone, celery, again	14	48	Tree . . . funnel.		Trees with good posture look like funnels	I fell out of a tree and broke my neck. So they put one of those white funnels around my neck to correct my posture.	5	3	コウ	かま.える、かま.う	構う (かま.う), 構える (かま.える)
1960	gutter	Câu	溝	gutter, water, water droplets, water pistol, funnel, cone, celery, again	13	48	Water . . . funnel.		A gutter funnels water.	A gutter takes the water that falls as rain and funnels it off to where it can be dealt with appropriately.	JH	1	コウ	みぞ	溝 (みぞ)
1961	argument	Luận	論	argument, say, words, keitai, mouth, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers	15	48	Words . . . meeting . . . scrapbook. The argument here is a process of academic reasoning, not a personal quarrel or spat.		Right part: academic conference (a meeting, some of the attendees making notes in scrapbooks during presentation). Argument at academic conferences is naturally carried out using words.	It´s very difficult to present a good argument if you don´t bring along a scrapbook with some key words jotted down to the meeting.	6	3	ロン		
1962	ethics	Luân	倫	ethics, person, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers	10	48	Person . . . meeting . . . scrapbook.		"Mr. T talks about ethics at the academic conference. ""I pity the fool who gets caught plagarizing someone else´s stuff!""."	Mr. T has no ethics at the scrapbooking convention. He´ll do whatever it takes to beat all those ladies.	JH	1	リン		
1963	wheel	Luân (luân hồi)	輪	wheel, car, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers	15	48	Car . . . meeting . . . scrapbook.		During a talk at the academic conference, speaker shows an introductory slide depicting the structure of car, and then moves on to the more narrow topic of wheels.	Someone stole all the wheels off the ladies´ cars at the scrapbook convention.	4	2	リン	わ	輪 (わ)
1964	partial	Thiên (thiên vị)	偏	partial, person, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers	11	48	Person . . . door . . . scrapbook. The sense of the key-word is that of having a bias or preference for someone or something.		Mr. T is partial to konbini hentai. He reads them for hours every day after work at his local konbini. (Primitive: KONBINI HENTAI, all the magazines(scrapbooks) by every konbini door in Japan).	Mr. T is very partial to hentai comic books. I know because he dropped a pile of them when I accidentally bumped into him at the door to kinokuniya!	JH	1	ヘン	かたよ.る	偏る (かたよ.る)
1965	everywhere	Biến	遍	everywhere, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, road	12	48	Door . . . scrapbook . . . a road.		Go down the road in Japan and you will find comics EVERYWHERE, newpaper stands, 7-11, Tsutaya, even the supermarket. Comics are everywhere here along the road.	Go down any road in Japan and you´ll find konbini hentai everywhere.	JH	1	ヘン	あまね.く	
1966	compilation	Biên	編	compilation, thread, spiderman, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers	15	48	Thread . . . door . . . scrapbook.		I took the compilation of covers of all my Spider-Man comics that I had saved in a scrapbook and glued them on my door.	A Japanese comic book is a compilation of the individual chapters (which have already appeared in weekly comic magazines) with a thread (story arc) going through it.	5	2	ヘン	あ.む、-あ.み	編む (あ.む)
1967	tome	Sách	冊	tome	5	48	This key word is a counter for books. It differs from scrapbook both in the writing order and in the extension of the second horizontal stroke.		Pictograph. I think of that Harry Potter spell book that had to be bound shut coz it wanted to eat you.	冊 さつ 1: counter for books A heavy scrapbook so full that flowers are sticking out. Only if a scrapbook is that full, it can be called a heavy book.	6	2	サツ、サク	ふみ	冊子 (さっし), 別冊 (べっさつ)
1969	code	Điển (điển tích)	典	code, bend, tool	8	48	We introduce this character here because of its connection to the book-related kanji treated above. It is based on the character for bend (frame 1256), whose last stroke is lengthened to coincide with the first stroke of the element for tool.		Coding is a tool which you can use to bend the computer to your will.	"Think ""codex"" (mnemonic help) or ""code of laws"", or even Leonardo Da Vinci´s code. Here I see a codex as a tool used to bend the masses into submission. Picture a huge codex book lifted down on crowds to bend them down in submission. Another: if you bend to the code without asking questions, you are a tool!"	4	1	テン、デン		
1970	family name	Thị	氏	family name, drop, fishhook, fishhook2	4	49	Pay close attention to the stroke order of the elements when learning to write this character. The elements: a long drop . . . fishhook . . . a one . . . fishhook.		Looks a bit like Ft => Family title => Family name.	The family name is important to me! Drop me from a building, torture me with a fishhook, I´m keeping my one family name. Hook me with a second fishhook, I refuse to change my family name.	4	1	シ	うじ、-うじ	氏 (うじ)
1971	paper	Chỉ	紙	paper, thread, spiderman, family name	10	49	Thread . . . family name.		All that threads you to your family name is a piece of paper. (birth certificate).	I imagine a ridiculously expensive, and rather pointless, Japanese type of paper for writing letters, with one´s family name woven in fine thread somewhere in a corner.	2	4	シ	かみ	紙 (かみ)
1972	marriage	Hôn	婚	marriage, woman, dusk, family name, day	11	49	Woman . . . family name . . . day.		Marriage is the day in this woman´s life where she gets a new family name.	Tip: Heisig later introduces the kanji 昏 dusk (#2451). Story: Never enter into marriage with a woman at dusk (wait until you see them in daylight). Note: This is an ancient proverb . . . (probably).	JH	3	コン		
1973	lower	Đê	低	lower, person, calling card, family name, one, floor	7	49	Person . . . calling card.		Mr. T travels to Japan and knows he must bow lower when presenting his business card.	A person bows low when presenting his business card.	4	2	テイ	ひく.い、ひく.める、ひく.まる	低い (ひく.い), 低まる (ひく.まる), 低める (ひく.める)
1974	resist	Đề	抵	resist, finger, fingers, calling card, family name, one, floor	8	49	Fingers . . . calling card.		Most japanese find it impossible to resist pushy businessmen in Japan when they push their damned business cards into your fingers.	Japan business etiquette tip: When someone hands you a business card, resist the impulse to fiddle around with it with your fingers, and by all means resist the urge to use the card to pick gunk from under your fingernails. Just examine it carefully, ask politely about the (few by now) kanji that you don´t know, and put it away carefully in a location that shows your counterparts how important they are to you.	JH	1	テイ		
1975	bottom	Đế	底	bottom, cave, calling card, family name, one, floor	8	49	Cave . . . calling card.		I put all those useless business cards at the bottom of a cave.	In the deepest bottom of this cave complex, spelunkers leave their calling cards to prove they made it all the way.	4	2	テイ	そこ	底 (そこ)
1976	people	Dân	民	people, mouth, family name	5	49	"In place of the drop at the start of the character for family name, we have a mouth, which makes you think of the ""vox populi."""		All the people of the world with all their family names shouting with their big mouths.	"How many of you know what ""vox populi"" means?"	4	3	ミン	たみ	民 (たみ)
1977	sleep	Miên (thôi miên)	眠	sleep, eye, people, mouth, family name	10	49	Eyes . . . people.		In an Orwellian sense, the eye watching the people never sleeps.	The little boy from The Sixth Sense couldn´t sleep because before his very eyes he saw a dead crowd of people everywhere.	JH	3	ミン	ねむ.る、ねむ.い	眠い (ねむ.い), 眠る (ねむ.る)
1978	catch	Bộ	捕	catch, finger, fingers, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise	10	49	Fingers . . . dog tag.		I was retreating from the battlefield. In the chaos, my friend threw his dogtags at me to give to his family. I managed to catch them with my fingers as the chopper was lifting off.	Dog tag: This is a wild animal track device. It has an arrowhead and screwdriver-shaped radio beacon. It´s evidently fired in animals to track their movements. When animal has a dog tag, it´s easy to catch it: just take a dog tag in your fingers.	JH	3	ホ	と.らえる、と.らわれる、と.る、とら.える、とら.われる、つか.まえる、つか.まる	捕まえる (つか.まえる), 捕まる (つか.まる), 捕らえる (と.らえる), 捕らわれる (と.らわれる), 捕る (と.る)
1980	bay	Phổ	浦	bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise	10	49	Water . . . dog tag.		The water of the bay washes all the dog tags up after the battle.	Otis Redding is sitting on the dock of the bay, looking over the water while clutching the dog tags of his fallen friend from Vietnam.	JH	1	ホ	うら	浦 (うら)
1981	bullrush	Bồ	蒲	bulrush, flowers, bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise	13	49	Flowers . . . bay.		Bulrush was the flower that you could see near almost all bays in japan before the japanese started putting concrete everywhere. Just check how many percent of Japan´s coastline that is concretised... you´ll be surprised.	The bulrush is a flower that grows around bays. http://www.meltonrossnewbarnetby.co.uk/images/bulrush.jpg.	Names		ホ、ボ、フ、ブ	がま、かば、かま	
1982	shop	Phố	舗	shop, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise	15	49	Cottage . . . dog tag. The key word refers to the noun, not the verb.		A shop in an impoverished country is just a cottage with a dog tag identifying it.	Normal cottages (舎 actually means a building) don´t have tags advertising their names, but shops do.	JH	1	ホ		
1983	supplement	Bổ	補	supplement, cloak, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise	12	49	Cloak . . . dog tag.		"I usually hear supplement in ""dietry supplement"". So you´re given a cloak for extra fibre and dogtags for extra iron. Keeps you regular and stops you feeling tired and run-down."	The name and number printed on a soldier´s cloak is a supplement to his main I.D. tag; his dog-tag, in helping identify the soldier.	6	2	ホ	おぎな.う	補う (おぎな.う)
1984	residence	Để	邸	residence, calling card, family name, one, floor, city walls	8	49	Calling card . . . city walls.		So fed up am I, I've finally built city walls around my residence to keep these Japanese from soliciting me with their business cards.	The business card says his residence is just to the left of the city walls. Can you find it? Yep, got it.	JH	1	テイ	やしき	
1985	enclosure	Quách (thành quách)	郭	enclosure, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, city walls	11	49	Receive . . . city walls.		The city finally received the enclosure that it desperately needed, city walls to protect it against attacks from the tall kids.	Even the tall kids can´t get out of the enclosure that is the city walls.	JH	1	カク	くるわ	
1986	county	Quận	郡	county, old boy, mop, mouth, city walls	10	49	Old boy . . . city walls.		The old boy had never been outside of his own county because he couldn't get over the city walls.	You can take the good old boy out of county (and into the city walls), but you can't take the county out of the good old boy. Is that how the saying goes?	4	1	グン	こうり	
1987	outskirts	Giao	郊	outskirts, mingle, top hat, father, city walls	9	49	Mingle . . . city walls.		The country folk and and the city folk mingle at the outskirts of town, just past the city walls.	The city walls mark the outskirts of the inner city, where it begins to mingle with the suburbs.	JH	2	コウ		
1988	section	Bộ	部	section, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, city walls	11	49	Muzzle . . . city walls.		Within the city walls, this section of town was so noisy that we had to muzzle them up.	The section within the city walls where dogs must be muzzled by law... RTK2:　へ　部屋　へや(room)...　　　　ブ　全部　ぜんぶ(all).	3	3	ブ	-べ	
1989	metropolis	Đô (đô thị)	都	metropolis, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, city walls	11	49	Someone . . . city walls.		A vision of a futuristic METROPOLIS: standing at the window of your 400th floor apartment, hand in hand with your LOVE DOLL, gazing out at the gigantic CITY WALLS that you can never escape.	In a metropolis people are just puppets inside city walls, there is no individuality if you live so close together.	3	3	ト、ツ	みやこ	都会 (とかい), 都心 (としん), 首都 (しゅと), 都 (みやこ)
1990	mail	Bưu	郵	mail, droop, silage, city walls	11	49	Droop . . . city walls.		"The drooping citywalls was generating a lot of angry mail for the city officials. Hint: think ""hate mail"" and you will remember this one. [thx CharleyGarrett]."	The city walls droop down in one spot so that the mailtman can throw the mail over.	6	2	ユウ		
1991	home country	Bang	邦	home country, bushes, city walls	7	49	Bushes . . . city walls.		"He reminisced about his home country: ""Ah, back in my home country, the bushes grew so high that they covered the city walls!""."	It's easier if you think of the USA as the HOME COUNTRY. To the northern border you have it protected by BUSHES, while to south you have it protected by CITY WALLS (or a 800 mile long fence).	JH	1	ホウ	くに	
1993	hometown	Hương	郷	home town, cocoon, silver, city walls	11	49	Cocoon . . . silver . . . city walls.		Your hometown is where you broke out of your cocoon (born), and where you left when your hair was silver (died), your whole life was spent inside the city walls.	Your home town is where you earned enough silver to enable you to break out of your giant cocoon (leave home) and explore outside the city walls.	6	1	キョウ、ゴウ	さと	郷里 (きょうり), 郷土 (きょうど), 異郷 (いきょう)
1994	echo	Hưởng	響	echo, home town, cocoon, silver, city walls, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging	20	49	Hometown . . . sound.		People´s voices are like echoes of sounds from their hometowns....you can always tell where they´re from by how they talk.	My hometown is a ghost town, any sounds echoes and echoes.	JH	1	キョウ	ひび.く	響く (ひび.く)
1995	son	Lang	郎	son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls	9	49	Halo . . . city walls.		The daughter is a good girl that grows up to be a woman. The son is a good boy that grows up to defend the city walls.	A good son stays within the city walls so he can care for his parents…　RTK2:　ロウ　新郎　しんろう(bridegroom)…　Pure Group:　廊1852.	JH	1	ロウ、リョウ	おとこ	
1996	corridor	Lang	廊	corridor, cave, son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls	12	49	Cave . . . son.		Your son plays in the corridor pretending he´s exploring a cave.	(ロウ) I think of the corridor found in the cave that Yoda made Luke Skywalker walk through as part of his Jedi training in Empire Strikes Back. It was in this corridor that Luke met Darth Vadar, cut off his head and found himself behind Darth Vadar´s mask. An early little hint that Luke was Darth Vadar´s son.	JH	1	ロウ		
1997	shield	Thuẫn (aka mâu thuẫn)	盾	shield, drag, ten, needle, eye	9	50	Dragging . . . ten eyes.		This is a magic shield with ten eyes which have the power to drag the victim towards it.	You paint 10 huge eyes on your shield to scare the enemy, but consequently your shield is so big and heavy that you have to drag it.	JH	1	ジュン	たて	盾 (たて)
1998	sequential	Tuần (tuần hoàn)	循	sequential, Nelson, column, going, line, shield, drag, ten, needle, eye	12	50	Line . . . shield.		"This is mostly used in the word 循環, ""circulation"" (of buses through their routes, of blood, etc). So I think of a column of little Roman soldiers with their shields marching sequentially through the veins of a person, as an anthropomorphization of the immune system."	"A column of shielded soldiers advancing sequentially to avoid revealing the size of their army (Think ""Sandpeople always ride single file to hide their numbers"" from Star Wars)."	JH	1	ジュン		
1999	faction	Phái (trường phái)	派	faction, water, water droplets, water pistol, caveman, drag, person, rag	9	50	Water . . . drag . . . rag. Back in frame 1127 we indicated that this latter radical would come up once again, as it does in this and the following two frames.		Drag + rag gave me trouble until I came up with zombie for it. The zombie population became more diverse, separating into different factions. One of them being the water Zombies.	The radical faction is almost eliminated, sir. They´re living in the sewers dressed in rags and dragging their supplies.	6	1	ハ		
2000	vein	Mạch	脈	vein, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, caveman, drag, person, rag	10	50	Part of body . . . drag . . . rag.		The vein is the part of the body most lusted after by the flesh hungry zombies (drag & rag - see revenantkioku frame 1855).	To get blood drawn from a vein you present the part of the body to the nurse, and they drag an alcohol swab (rag) across the vein.	4	1	ミャク	すじ	
2001	masses	Chúng	衆	masses, blood, drop, dish, Carol in rags person, rag, drop3	12	50	Blood . . . drag . . . rag.		Masses of zombies, splattered with blood. (any zombie movie).	When the masses are hurt, say in a natural disaster like an earthquake, they can be seen everywhere dragging their bloody rags.	6	1	シュウ、シュ	おお.い	衆寡 (しゅうか), 民衆 (みんしゅう), 聴衆 (ちょうしゅう)
2002	parcel post	Đệ (đệ trình, gửi đi)	逓	parcel post, drag, cornstalk, belt, road	10	50	Drag . . . cornstalk . . . belt . . . road.		(I prefer 2 towels over cornstalk and belt) - Have you ever wondered why your parcels always end up in such bad condition when you get them? Or why you never get them at all? That's because you've never looked at how they're actually delivered - each postman is given a load of parcel post and 2 towels to drag them down the road on.	Picture a crude drag-sled - in this case, made from cornstalks that have been belted together - filled with parcels, that the postman drags along behind him down the road along his delivery route.	JH	1	テイ	かわ.る、たがいに	
2003	grade	Đoạn	段	grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	9	50	The kanji connoting rank or class shows us a new element on the left: the familiar primitive for staples with an additional stroke cutting through the vertical stroke. It is easiest in these cases to make a primitive related to what we already know. Hence, we call it a staple gun. To the right, missile.		This is a military-grade staple gun! It can be loaded with real missiles.	1st grade: staple gun, 9th grade: missiles.	6	3	ダン、タン		
2004	forge	Đoàn, đoán	鍛	forge, metal, gold, grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	17	50	Metal . . . grade.		As a discriminating metalsmith, I use the highest grade metals when forging such precision devices as staple guns and missiles.	Metal has to be forged many times over in order to reach a high grade.	JH	1	タン	きた.える	鍛える (きた.える)
2005	empress	Hậu	后	empress, drag, one, ceiling, mouth	6	50	Drag . . . one . . . mouth.		The F word often comes out of the mouth of the empress.	The empress is cruel. Normally she´ll violently pull her servants by the ear when they´ve failed to follow orders. But one time she dragged this one guy around the palace by the mouth. She must have been really angry—ever since that moment, he´s never been seen again.	6	1	コウ、ゴ	きさき	
2006	phantasm	Ảo	幻	phantasm, cocoon, clothes hanger, coat hanger	4	50	Cocoon . . . clothes hanger.		You open your closet and find strange, glowing cocoons sitting on your clothes hangers... definitely a phantasm!	After the play, The Phantasm of the Opera hangs up his cape on a clothes hanger and returns to his cocoon to sleep.	JH	1	ゲン	まぼろし	幻 (まぼろし)
2007	director	Tư, ti (tư lệnh, công ty)	司	director, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth	5	50	Clothes hanger . . . one . . . mouth.		"The porn director has one big mouth. ""Don´t bother putting your clothes on a hanger, just get started.""."	The director sticks a clothes hanger in each actor´s mouth and hangs them from the ceiling until he needs them.	4	1	シ	つかさど.る	
2008	pay respects	Tứ	伺	pay respects, person, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth	7	50	This honorific form of call on (Frame 534) is made up of: person . . . director.		If Mr. T gets a role in a film, he doesnt pay respects to the director, the director pays respects to Mr. T.	That person, being the director, is someone you need to pay your respects to.	JH	2	シ	うかが.う	伺う (うかが.う)
2009	parts of speech	Từ (ca từ, lời văn)	詞	part of speech, say, words, keitai, mouth, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth, mouth2	12	50	The key word, parts of speech, refers to nouns, verbs, adjective, adverbs, and so on. The elements: words . . . directors.		"The big mouthed diretor is even picky about the parts of speech you use, shouting, ""More verbs! Less adjectives!"" and such all the time."	Parts of speech act as word directors, giving it meaning and indicating its correct placement and usage in grammar.	6	2	シ		
2010	domesticate	Tự	飼	domesticate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth	13	50	Eat . . . director. The sense is of rearing of animals.		When you DOMESTICATE a animal, you are the DIRECTOR of it´s life and what it EATS.	After a pride of hungry lions ate the director, the producer decided to tone down his documentary and film domesticated cats instead.	5	1	シ	か.う	飼う (か.う)
2011	heir	Tự	嗣	heir, mouth, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth	13	50	Mouth . . . scrapbook . . . director.		The director's mouth dropped open as he flipped through the scrapbook of properties he was about to become heir to.	My mouth hung open when I found out I was the heir to not only my father's scrapbooks, but he also left me as director of the company.	JH	1	シ		
2012	boat	Chu, châu	舟	boat	6	50	After the drop and the glass canopy, we come to a combination of three strokes that we met only once before, in the character for mama (frame 105). The pictographic meaning we gave it there has no etymological relationship to this character, but use it if it helps.		I see this kanji as a pictograph of a two story boat seen from the front. The glass canopy is the body of the boat. The drop on top is the chimney. The horizontal line is the ceiling/floor between the the 1st/2nd floor. Finally, the two drops in the middle are the lights on the decks.	Cinnabar (丹) colored boat, the extra drop signifying that the paint hasn´t dried yet. The stick represents the oars.	JH	2	シュウ	ふね、ふな-、-ぶね	舟 (ふね)
2013	liner	Bạc	舶	liner, boat, white, dove	11	50	The type of boat connoted by this key word is a large oceangoing liner. The important thing here is to work with the elements boat and dove to make an image distinct from that of the former frame. Don't count on size alone to distinguish the boat from the liner.		The most famous LINER is the Titanic, which struck an iceberg and sunk. Just imagine that huge LINER strucking an even huger mass of white ice.	A liner is to boat as an emperor (#261) is to a king (#255), or a chief (#967) is to a person (#951): in each case we need only add white to the latter in order to get the former.	JH	1	ハク		
2014	navigate	Hàng (hàng không, hàng hải)	航	navigate, boat, whirlwind, top hat, wind	10	50	Boat . . . whirlwind.		"To navigate a ""boat"" through a ""whirlwind"" takes a skilled navigator."	In Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, you can navigate your boat by summoning whirlwinds.	4	2	コウ		
2016	carrier	Ban	般	carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	10	50	Boat . . . missile.		"Carrier?! This means ""general"" (as in the general public or generally). OK.. Carriers, i.e. boats with missiles, are not available to the general public."	In general, carrier boats have missiles.	JH	2	ハン		
2017	tray	Bàn	盤	tray, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, dish	15	50	Carrier . . . dish.		"What do you call a ""CARRIER"" of DISHes? A TRAY."	Imagine a restaurant set in Disney´s Fantasia or maybe in Harry Potter´s university, where dishes are magically landing and taking off of a carrier tray.	JH	1	バン		
2018	conveyor	Ban	搬	conveyor, finger, fingers, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	13	50	Fingers . . . carrier.		When workers neglect workplace safety, their fingers get cut off and carried away by the conveyor belt, which looks like a ´finger carrier´ in that case.	During WWII, morse code was the primary means of communication from sea. The morse code specialist was the conveyor of messages to and from the crew of the carrier, using his fingers to tap out the secret messages. (This works especially well for 搬送周波数 carrier frequency and 搬送波 carrier wave, being the radio waves/frequencies used in morse code).	JH	1	ハン		
2019	ship	Thuyền	船	ship, boat, gully, eight, mouth	11	50	Boat . . . gully.		A boy floats his toy boat in a gully and imagines it as an immense ship.	"Aargh, hard to keep this separate from boat. How about this: the phrase ""shape up or ship out!"" This phrase originally meant that a soldier had better get his act together, or else face being shipped off into a combat zone. Here we see a poor WW-I soldier who has been shipped off to a combat zone. He´s riding in the boat overseas to fight in the trenches (gulley)."	2	3	セン	ふね、ふな-	船 (ふね)
2020	warship	Hạm	艦	warship, boat, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish	21	50	Boat . . . oversee.		The warship towers over the smaller benign boats, overseeing their safe path from port to port.	A warship is a boat that oversees the seas. Think of it as the patroller of the ocean.	JH	1	カン		
2021	rowboat	Đình	艇	rowboat, boat, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch	13	50	Boat . . . courts.		In venice, the boat used by the courts to transport criminals is a rowboat.	Courts in olden times would often punish convicts by sentencing them to a life of being the rower crew for large rowboat ships (there were no engines or boilers back then)... Yo ho, Yo ho....	JH	1	テイ		
2022	melon	Qua	瓜	melon, claw, vulture, elbow	6	50	The only thing that distinguishes this from the claw is the addition of the elbow, made by doubling up the third stroke and adding a fourth.		何これ???? ok, sorry to be crude... if you claw at a girls melons, she is gonna give you the elbow.	Vegetarian vultures are fighting for a melon, each trying to elbow its way to it with claws.	Names		カ、ケ	うり	
2023	arc	Hồ	弧	arc, bow, melon, claw, vulture, elbow	9	50	Bow . . . melon.		When you use a bow to shoot a melon, the arc varies depending on how far away you are.	"Joan of Arc (""arc"" also means ""bow"" in french) is practicing with a bow, shooting at melons in a distant field."	JH	1	コ		
2024	orphan	Cô	孤	orphan, child, melon, claw, vulture, elbow	9	50	Child . . . melon.		An orphan will never know the joys on sucking on his mother´s melons........	Unlike the celebrated story of Momotaro the peach boy, no one knows the story of the melon boy who was left an orphan.	JH	1	コ		
2025	cocoon	Kiến	繭	cocoon, flowers, hood, stick, thread, spiderman, insect	18	51	Though it's a good thing that the primitive for cocoon has been radically abbreviated from this, its full form as a kanji, the story it holds is a charming one. The silkworm (insect) eats the leaves of the mulberry bush (the flowers), digests them and transforms them into thread with which it spins about itself, in mystic wisdom, its own coffin (the hood). The dividing line that separates the two elements helps the picture of the little worm cutting itself off from contact with the outside world, but as a character stroke, it is a clear exception.		This is a simple two-column manga showing the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a cocoon. First, the caterpillar gets under a large flower (bees tend to hang around flowers, which scare away other predators). Then, in the first frame, we see the caterpillar (insect). Then, a bar separating this frame from the next frame (remember that Japanese manga run the other way!), in which we see the insect covered with thread, making a beautiful cocoon.	The magic flower is the reason why Spider-Man ended up miniaturized and confined inside a hood-like cocoon together with an insect. Now, only a walking stick separates them both.	JH	1	ケン	まゆ、きぬ	繭 (まゆ)
2026	benefit	Ích	益	benefit, animal horns, one, floor, animal legs, eight, dish	10	51	Poised over the dish here is a pair of animal horns that are attached to a pair of animal legs by a single horizontal stroke.		The benefit of having sharp horns and fast legs is that an animal can get to the food dish first.	The benefit of being an animal with horns and fast legs is in keeping it from becoming a dish for the other animals! (shaydwyrm).	5	1	エキ、ヤク	ま.す	有益 (ゆうえき), 利益 (りえき), 益する (まする), 益 (やく)
2027	spare time	Hạ (nhàn hạ)	暇	spare time, sun, day, hobby, staples, mouth, box, crotch, box2	13	51	"The element for day on the left is logical enough. Next to it we see staples being held in mouth (one stroke is doubled up), indicating working in one's hobby or handicrafts at home on one's spare time. The small box at the top right is facing backwards, or more properly ""inside out."" Finally, we have the crotch at the bottom."		Some jackass-like people have way too much spare time. You can find video´s of them all over the internet, if you like such things, you can watch it all day. You see them stapling their mouths shut, or throwing eachother upside down in boxes or kicking each other in the crotch.	"Tip: The complex right side of this kanji appears twice more in Heisig. He later names it ""hobby"". REF: shrimp (#2689), haze (#2779)."	JH	1	カ	ひま、いとま	暇 (ひま)
2028	spread	Phu	敷	spread, arrowhead, rice field, brains, compass, direction, taskmaster	15	51	At the top we have the arrowhead whose vertical line joins it to the rice field (or brains) below it. Beneath it, the compass; and to the right, the taskmaster.		Instead of being glued to one specialty (#46) 専, I decided to spread my attention in many directions 方, and be a taskmaster at none.	Arrowheads are spread all over the field. The taskmaster profiteerer forces you to find them all using a compass.	JH	1	フ	し.く、-し.き	敷く (し.く)
2029	come	Lai (tương lai)	来	come, not yet, animal horns	7	51	This odd but common kanji is built up of the character for not yet into which a pair of animal horns has been inserted.		You horny bastard, don´t come, at least not yet!	"Here I see, of all things, Bambi. His animal horns have not yet come out. (As we can see in the kanji, the animal horns are not at the top, not ""poking through"". ) Remember: Bambi will soon come to have a great set of animal horns but they have not yet come out."	2	5	ライ、タイ	く.る、きた.る、きた.す、き.たす、き.たる、き、こ	来す (きた.す), 来る (きた.る), 来る (く.る)
2030	spirit	Khí	気	spirit, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook, sheaf	6	51	The spirit in this character refers to the changeable moods and airs of one's personality as well as to the more essential combination of vital forces that distinguish things and individuals one from the other. Its elements are: reclining . . . floor . . . fishhook . . . sheaf. Do not confuse with spirits (Frame 1930).		You´re reclining on the floor trying to hook a sheaf with a small hook through the cracks. That you´ve been doing this for seven hours without success shows your burning spirit.	Captain Hook, his spirit crushed, is lying on the ground cursing Wolverine who has defeated him with his far superior claws.	1	5	キ、ケ	いき	気体 (きたい), 気候 (きこう), 元気 (げんき)
2031	vapor	Khí	汽	vapor, water, water droplets, water pistol, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook	7	51	Think of this character as a sibling of that for spirit. Simply replace sheaves with drops of water on the left in order to get vapor.		Water vapor almost looks like a spirit but has no soul.	Wolverine disappears into water vapor, seemingly his spirit dissipating into nothingness.	2	1	キ		
2032	fly	Phi	飛	fly, hook, propeller, measuring box, thousand, needles, propeller2	9	51	The two large hooks have little propellers (the two drops on each hook) attached to them for flying. Beneath is the measuring box, which serves as the body of this flying contraption. The stroke order will cause some problems, so take care with it.		Hooks with small wings attached look like hummingbirds with a long beak. Two hummingbirds are trying to fly away with our little measuring box. What do they want it for?	Two hummingbirds flying into a measuring box serving as a bird feeder…　RTK2:　ヒ　飛行機　ひこうき(airplane).	4	3	ヒ	と.ぶ、と.ばす、-と.ばす	飛ばす (と.ばす), 飛ぶ (と.ぶ)
2033	sink	Trầm	沈	sink, water, water droplets, water pistol, garter, crown, human legs	7	51	The technique for sinking used in this kanji is unique. Rather than the biblical image of tying a millstone about the victim's neck, here we see a crown tied about one leg before the unfortunate party is tossed into the water.		(thx geezer) The maimed waitress (no head and arms just her legs and trunk) is dropped into the water with a cement crown to make sure she sinks. She shouldn´t have been so nosy about her yakuza-boyfriend´s schemes.	"This is the famous story of Archimedes and the Crown, where buoyancy was discovered. Watching the crown sink in the water, Archimedes detected the fraud and ran naked through the city (human legs distorted from running) yelling ""Eureka! Eureka!"" See http://math.nyu.edu/~crorres/Archimedes/Crown/CrownIntro.html and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_%28word%29."	JH	2	チン、ジン	しず.む、しず.める	沈む (しず.む), 沈める (しず.める)
2035	wife	Thê	妻	wife, ten, needle, rake, woman	8	51	Ten . . . rakes . . . woman.		Ten rakes woman. your wife digs her fingernails into you and it feels like 10 rakes when she finds you ontop of another woman.	"(I´m really not sexist, this just helps me remember the kanji): I make my WIFE do all the yard work, and as a really mean joke, I bought her TEN RAKES for her birthday this year. ""Do the yardwork, WOMAN! You have TEN perfectly good RAKES to choose from!""."	5	3	サイ	つま	妻 (つま)
2037	decline	Suy	衰	decline, pathetic, stick, top hat, scarf, mouth	10	51	Let this key word connote the decline and fall of the Roman Empire. It shows a fellow in a top hat and scarf, trying hard to look happy by putting a walking stick in his mouth sideways to twist his face into a grotesque but semi permanent smile.		If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, begging people to throw it for him. Note that the mouth is closed only after the stick goes in, as is only logical.	If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, allowing people to rent him and play catch with him for money!	JH	1	スイ	おとろ.える	衰える (おとろ.える)
2038	inmost	Trung	衷	inmost, ten, needle, mouth, scarf	9	51	Between the top hat and the scarf you will see the character for in which is truncated at the bottom so as not to interfere with the scarf. You can think of this character forming as a pair with that of the former frame: there the in (the walking stick in the mouth) was set on its side; here it is set upright.		The guy from pathetic (#401) shared his inmost feelings with a girl and she rammed a walking stick down his throat. It ruptured his inmost organs.	Besides making money from acting like a dog (see decline), the pathetic man has risked his inmost internal organs by becoming a cane swallower!	JH	1	チュウ		
2039	mask	Diện	面	mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye	9	51	Imagine a mask over your head with eyes peeping out from all over the head, a hundred in all (the element for eye displacing the fifth stroke of that for hundred).		If you´re wearing a mask, a hundred eyes can look at you but none of them will know who you are.	When Jim Carrey puts on The Mask, he can make it seem like he has 100 eyes popping out of his head.	3	3	メン、ベン	おも、おもて、つら	面 (おも), 面 (おもて), 面 (つら)
2041	leather	Cách	革	leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle	9	51	After the flowers at the top (painted on the leather for decoration), we see the element for car with the middle stroke left out. Think of the seats having been taken out so that they can be reupholstered with this decorated leather.		I asked the street vendor the price of the LEATHER jacket. He said TWENTY, but with my MOUTH, I talked him down to TEN. (correct stroke order).	You can feed twenty mouths for a year for the price of ten leather coats.	6	2	カク	かわ	革 (かわ)
2042	shoes	Ngoa	靴	shoes, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground	13	51	Leather . . . change.		Leather shoes are nice because they change shape to fit your foot.	Leather is often changed into shoes.	JH	3	カ	くつ	靴 (くつ)
2043	hegemony	Bá	覇	hegemony, old west, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	19	51	Old West . . . leather . . . moon.		In the Old West, cowboys had hegemony OVER the Indians despite their leathercraft and ability to navigate by the moon.	In the old west, animal skins were made into leather and their flesh was eaten, thus using the whole animal, which viewed from the animal side could be taken as humans asserting complete hegemony over them. All your base are belong to us.	JH	1	ハ、ハク	はたがしら	
2044	voice	Thanh	声	voice, samurai, flag, stick	7	51	The samurai at the top is familiar enough. The combination beneath, which looks like a flag with a line running through it, is not. Try to devise some way to take note of it, and pay attention to the writing.		When an enemy's flag is raised, a true samurai can split it in half with just his voice.	Having lost his voice, the samurai comunicated to his troops with a striped flag.	2	3	セイ、ショウ	こえ、こわ-	声楽 (せいがく), 声援 (せいえん), 名声 (めいせい), 声 (こえ)
2046	give	Ngô	呉	give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs	7	51	The complex of strokes in this kanji is unusual and difficult, because of the fourth stroke, which is rare (see frames 33 and 34). The mouth and tool are already familiar.		As a present, I gave my dentist a hand-crank tool for spreading mouths. He was so happy since it makes his job easier.	I see this as a pictograph of an old-style phonograph - a stand, record, crank and bell (the mouth). Even the primitives work out - a tool with a crank which plays music out of the bell mouth. Imaginge giving one of these old and beautiful phonographs to a classical or jazz music buff!	JH	1	ゴ	く.れる、くれ	
2047	recreation	Ngu	娯	recreation, woman, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs	10	51	Woman . . . give.		A man from a less enlightened society comes for a visit, and asks the host to give him a woman for some recreation.	"Typical male fantasy of recreation: women ""giving it up""."	JH	1	ゴ		
2048	mistake	Ngộ	誤	mistake, say, words, keitai, mouth, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs, mouth2	14	51	Words . . . give.		"It is a rookie mistake to believe the words when your sweetie says ""You don't have to give me anything for my birthday."" Trust me, your sweetie wants something, something shiny, and if you disappoint, you will suffer."	You must give words of apology when you make a mistake.	6	3	ゴ	あやま.る、-あやま.る	誤る (あやま.る)
2049	steam	Chưng	蒸	steam, flowers, helping hand, complete, water, one, floor, oven-fire, barbecue	13	51	The flower at the top and the floor with the oven fire beneath are familiar. The problem is what comes in between. It is formed by the character for complete, whose vertical stroke doubles up as the first stroke of water.		This kanji is used in compounds for the steaming of food and also for smoking/fumigation. Here we have the Japanese once again trying to replicate the French cuisine, only with a twist, steaming food with flowers (think of flower-smoked ham for example). Flowers must first be completely soaked in water, and then poured over a thin piece of flooring under which there is an oven fire.	When you want to steam some flowers/vegetation you don't cover them completely with water, rather you have just a little at the floor of the saucepan and then heat.	6	2	ジョウ、セイ	む.す、む.れる、む.らす	蒸す (む.す), 蒸らす (む.らす), 蒸れる (む.れる)
2050	acquiesce	Thừa (thừa nhận)	承	acquiesce, water, complete, three	8	51	The sense of passive acceptance or reception of information is contained in this key word. The form is based on the middle portion of the preceding character, with three additional strokes, best thought of as the kanji for three.		To get someone to completely acquiesce it takes 3 dunks in the water before they give.	To get someone to acquiesce, duck them completely in aqua (=water) three times. (variation on dingomick´s).	5	2	ショウ、ジョウ	うけたまわ.る、う.ける、ささ.げる、とど.める、たす.ける、こ.らす、つい.で、すく.う	承る (うけたまわ.る)
2051	bin	Hàm (hộp)	函	bin, snare, sparkler, shovel	8	51	This is the character from which the element for shovel derives. Within it comes the element for snare, with the sparkler surrounding it.		Damn racoons ill show them. I put a snare in the bin as well as a few phosphorous sparklers so as to scare the shit out of the buggers as they rummage through my bin.	(thegeezer3) Damn racoons... I´ll show them. I´ll put a SNARE in the BIN as well as a few SPARKLERS so as to scare the shit out of the buggers, then hit them with a SHOVEL.	Names		カン	はこ、い.れる	
2052	poles	Cực	極	poles, decay, tree, wood, snare, mouth, crotch, one, floor	12	51	The poles this key word refers to are the extremities of the earth or the terminals of an electric field. The elements are: tree . . . snare . . . mouth . . . crotch . . . floor.		Can simplify this using decay (#1243). Then: The expedition to the poles is bad for your health, and the decay that started in your mouth spreads to your crotch – at which point you fall to the floor.	(modified Katsuo) Can simplify this using decay (#1243). You travel to the poles, a frozen wasteland. In desperate need of food you try to set up a snare but the tree is decayed (see story for decay (#1243)) so you catch no prey. The brutal cold first attacks your mouth as your lips turn blue, then your crotch also gets cold as your body fails; finally you fall to the floor.	4	2	キョク、ゴク	きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み、き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる	極限 (きょくげん), 終極 (おわりきょく), 積極的 (せっきょくてき), 極まる (きわ.まる), 極み (きわ.み), 極める (きわ.める)
2053	tusk	Nha	牙	tusk	4	52	If you play with this primitive's form with pencil and paper, you will see that it begins with a box-like shape, and ends with the final two strokes of the halberd, a convenient combination for the tusk protruding from the mouth of an animal.	* Since this kanji has 4 strokes, you would expect that as a primitive it would also have 4 - but in fact it has 5 in the following two frames (the second stroke between divided into 2 strokes) and reverts to 4 again in frame 2056.	The kanji looks like an elephant with tusks. the box is the elephant´s eye. The final stroke is the tusk.	He stored the tusks into a box, along with the broken halberds.	JH		ガ、ゲ	きば、は、きばへん	牙 (きば)
2054	bud	Nha	芽	bud, flowers, tusk	8	52	Flowers . . . tusk.		Zoo keepers are baffled as to why the tips of the elephant's tusks keep budding into flowers.	Buds while they´re still small tend to be tusk-shaped.	4	1	ガ	め	芽 (め)
2055	wicked	Tà	邪	wicked, tusk, city walls	8	52	Tusk . . . city walls.		The wicked queen builds her city walls out of menacing tusks.	As everyone knows, rhinoceroses and elephants are often killed for the value of their TUSKS. Here we see a WICKED city mayor who has had countless elephants killed just to make his CITY WALLS out of TUSKS.	JH	1	ジャ	よこし.ま	
2056	gracious	Nhã	雅	gracious, tusk, turkey	13	52	Tusk . . . an old turkey.		"Goodness gracious! Such an elegant turkey with a tusk. This mnemonic is meant to join RtK´s keyword with a better proposition. Heisig could have used ""elegant"" here, which is not confounded so easily with graceful (#721), and accurately represents the character´s meaning (it is also the chosen keyword in Kodansha´s Kanji Learner´s Dictionary)."	"To not confuse it with grace (#606) or graceful (#721), think of the phrase ""Goodness gracious."" Like: ""Goodness gracious! A turkey with tusks!""."	JH	1	ガ	みや.び	
2057	interpretation	Thích	釈	explanation, animal tracks, drop, rice, shaku-hachi, flag, stick	11	52	Animal tracks . . . shakuhachi.		Animal track primitive: As expected, animal tracks were left in place of the trail of rice I´d purposely dropped the night before. EDIT - also try the footprint for a primitive meaning, the classic symbol of detective films. STORY: This shakuhachi player is so talented, he can do interpretations of animal noises too. They´re so realistic he soon has animal tracks leading straight to wherever he´s playing.	An interpretive dance of some kind where somebody follows animal tracks, a shakuhachi providing the soundtrack, suggesting the tracker's thoughts and intentions.	JH	1	シャク、セキ	とく、す.てる、ゆる.す	
2058	turn	Phiên / number	番	turn, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains	12	52	This key word has been chosen for its overlay of several meanings similar to those of the kanji: a turn of duty, a round, a number, and so forth. Its composite elements: animal tracks . . . rice field.	* As a primitive element, we choose the image of a pair of dice which it is your turn to throw.	The famers take it in turns to watch out for any animal tracks on their rice field.	They take turns alternating between wheat and rice in this field…　　RTK2:　バン　電話番号　でんわばんごう(telephone number).	2	3	バン	つが.い	
2059	hearing	Thẩm	審	hearing, house, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains	15	52	The hearing referred to in this character relates to trials in the courts. The elements: house . . . dice.		"At your divorce hearing the judge tells you to roll dice to see who keeps the house. (""I can´t believe what I´m hearing!"" you say)."	In the courthouse the judge decides your hearing with a roll of the dice.	JH	1	シン	つまび.らか、つぶさ.に	
2060	flip	Phiên	翻	flip, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains, feathers, wings	18	52	Dice . . . feathers.		Don't play dice with birds. When you're not looking, they'll flip the dice with their feathers.	When the birds out the back are playing dice, they flip their feathers (not their finger) at their opponents.	JH	1	ホン、ハン	ひるがえ.る、ひるがえ.す	翻す (ひるがえ.す), 翻る (ひるがえ.る)
2061	clan	Phiên	藩	clan, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains	18	52	Flowers . . . water . . . dice.		In the particular clan depicted by this character, each member has to take his or her turn watering the flowers.	This character refers to feudal clans that were abolished in 1871 (Meiji 4) in favor of prefectures (廃藩置県), and thus were predecessors of the modern prefectures. As we know from 落, flowers and water drops each have their own way of falling. This character says that clans´ location was decided in the way flowers, water drops and dice fall: at random. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_%28country_subdivision%29.	JH	1	ハン		
2062	fur	Mao	毛	fur	4	52	This character simply reverses the direction of the final stroke of hand to produce fur. If you reverse your hand and put its palm down, you will have the side on which fur grows.		I´ve heard of people having hair on the back of their hands, but this is ridiculous! That´s not hair, that´s fur!	Be careful not to pet a cat the wrong way - most cats don´t like you rubbing your hand backwards over their fur.	2	2	モウ	け	毛 (け)
2063	decrease	Hao	耗	decrease, christmas tree, fur	10	52	Christmas tree . . . fur.		"The amount of ""fur"" (needles) on a Christmas tree decreases, until it doesn´t look all that good."	Real fur coats and real christmas trees are dereasing the last couple of years. Plasctic chrismas trees and fake fur it is nowadays.	JH	1	モウ、コウ、カウ		消耗 (しょうもう)
2064	tail	Vĩ	尾	tail, flag, fur	7	52	Flag . . . fur.		A dog waves its furry tail like a flag.	A FLAG of FUR is a TAIL.	JH	1	ビ	お	尾 (お)
2065	home	Trạch	宅	home, house, lock of hair	6	52	House . . . lock of hair.		"This kanji is, of course, pronounced ""taku"", and it seems the owner of this home is a little bit otaku himself. He has hung up locks of hair suruptitiously obtained from various females all over his house. A veritable hair fetishist, and certainly someone whose home you wouldn´t want to visit."	Home is where the hair is.	6	3	タク		
2066	consign	Thác	託	consign, say, words, keitai, mouth, lock of hair	10	52	Words . . . lock of hair.		When you consign a matter to someone, you get their word and a lock of their hair (to be used in a voodoo ritual if they don´t keep their word).	"In ""The Lord of the Rings"", Galadriel consigned a lock of her hair to Gimli the dwarf, along with some wise words."	JH	1	タク	かこつ.ける、かこ.つ、かこ.つける	
2067	do	Vi (bởi vì)	為	do, so, strange building, tail feathers	9	52	This character rightly belongs to the previous lesson, but we held it until now because of the final element, the tail feathers. After the drop at the outset, the next three strokes are completely novel and should be given special attention.		"In this kanji, you can see 3 katakana characters: ソ, ユ, and then ユ again followed by TAIL FEATHERS. STORY: ""So (ソ) you (ユ) wanna DO it?"" ""Only if you (ユ) do"" says the female bird as she raises her TAIL FEATHERS."	Do me from behind, says the bird, as she shakes her tailfeathers.	JH	1	イ	ため、な.る、な.す、す.る、たり、つく.る、なり	
2068	falsehood	Nguỵ	偽	falsehood, person, do, so, strange building, tail feathers	11	52	Person . . . do.		A person who claims he didn't do something while he actually did, is telling a falsehood.	It depends on what your definition of do, uh, is, says Mr. T giving falsehood about his affair with a peacock.	JH	1	ギ、カ	いつわ.る、にせ、いつわ.り	偽る (いつわ.る), 偽 (にせ)
2070	long	Trưởng	長	long, hair, hairpin, safety-pin	8	52	In line with the story of the preceding frame, the hair that needs the hairpin is long.	* The primitive of this kanji has two more shapes in addition to that of the kanji itself. Above its relative primitive, it is abbreviated form will mean hair. Further abbreviated, it will mean the long, mangy mane of an animal.	The top of this one reminds me of the staple primitive. So here´s my story: The girl´s hair was so long that she had to use staples instead of hairpins. It worked, but stapling her hair to her head was kinda painful.	The Geisha with long hair uses an ornate lacquered hairpin to bundle it all up.	2	5	チョウ	なが.い、おさ	長い (なが.い)
2071	lengthen	Trương	張	lengthen, bow, long	11	52	Bow . . . long.		The longbow is follows the design of a standard bow, only it has been lengthened.	"Legolas recieves spam telling him that his can lengthen his ""bow""...he smirks...he know´s it´s already long enough."	5	1	チョウ	は.る、-は.り、-ば.り	張る (は.る)
2072	notebook	TRƯỚNG	帳	notebook, towel, long	11	52	Towel . . . long.		In ancient China books were rolled-up scrolls of paper. So notebooks were nothing more than long towels.	Students, for this class, your notebook will be a towel. Make sure it´s extra long though, we´ll have a lot of writing.	3	1	チョウ	とばり	
2073	dilate	Trướng	脹	dilate, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, long	12	52	Flesh . . . long.		Taking Viagra let´s your blood vessels dilate...resulting in a body part getting long.	Staying out in the dark moonlit sky for a long time, your pupils dilate.	Names	1	チョウ	は.れる、ふく.らむ、ふく.れる	
2074	hair of the head	PHÁT	髪	hair of the head, hairstyle, hair, shape, friend	14	52	Hair . . . shape . . . friend.		Japanese teenage girls consider the style of the hair of the head very important. If a particular style is trendy, soon they all want their own hair in the same shape as that of their friends.	Friends influence the length and shape of each other´s hair.	JH	3	ハツ	かみ	髪 (かみ)
2075	unfold	Triển (làm phơi ra)	展	unfold, flag, salad, hairpin, safety-pin	10	52	Flag . . . salad . . . hairpin.		Unfold flag, take out the salad, pin the flag down with hairpins and have a picnic.	You use an American flag to wrap up a salad for a picnic and bind it with a hairpin. Now imagine unfolding it to open up the bounty you´ve fixed up for yourself.	6	1	テン		
2076	miss	Tang (tang lễ)	喪	miss, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth2	12	52	Soil . . . two mouths . . . hairpin. Hint: see spit (Frame 162). The key word carries the wide range of meanings readily associated with it: error, loss, absence, and so on.		"I miss my parents dearly. Here they lay, under a big cross, their mouths side by side. I stick hairpins in their graves. CAREFUL: the stroke order/primitive order is: ten, L mouth, R mouth, hairpin. ""Soil"" is not drawn in its stroke order."	"This kanji means miss as in ""miss a (dearly departed) person"", not as in ""miss a target"".　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Here the dearly departed has been buried in the ground, with her favourite hairpin in place of a gravestone, and two mourners stand around crying with open mouths."	JH	1	ソウ	も	喪 (も)
2077	nest	Sào	巣	nest, owl, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood	11	53	Owl . . . fruit.		Owls only nest in fruit trees.	The wise old OWL makes her nest out of FRUIT, carving out the middle for her chicks, because then it´s less work: no running back & forth to get food!	4	1	ソウ	す、す.くう	巣 (す)
2078	simple	Đơn	単	simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle	9	53	"Owl . . . brain . . . needle. The sense is ""not complex."""		Owls are smart...for this owl everything is simple coz his brain is ten times more powerful than mine.	An owl´s brain is ten times smarter than other simple minded birds…　RTK2:　タン　簡単　かんたん(simple).	4	3	タン	ひとえ	
2079	war	CHIẾN	戦	war, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle, fiesta	13	53	Simple . . . fiesta.		George W. Bush´s plans for war were so SIMPLE. To him, its all just a big FIESTA.	So there´s this fiesta in downtown Compton. It´s a simple party, but someone invited people from the wrong gangs and the simple fiesta turns into an all-out turf war.	4	3	セン	いくさ、たたか.う、おのの.く、そよぐ、わなな.く	戦 (いくさ), 戦う (たたか.う)
2080	Zen	THIỆN (phái thiền)	禅	zen, altar, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle	13	53	Altar . . . simple.		Knowing ZEN’s emphasis on “nothingness,” it’s not hard to envision a ZEN ALTAR being quite clean and SIMPLE.	"Simple-minded blond girl (see frame 1928) is very good at Zen, which isn´t surprising since she doesn´t think much. She has this bad habit of meditating perched on the main temple altar, which infuriates the Zen buddhists. When they get up to her and tell her rudely to step down the altar, she just smiles and teases them : ""Not very zen are you ?"". Who would have thought simple-minded blond girl would teach the Zen buddhists a lesson !"	JH	1	ゼン、セン	しずか、ゆず.る	
2081	bullet	ĐÀN	弾	bullet, bow, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle	12	53	Bow . . . simple.		Hunting with a bow is too complicated. I´m switching to something simpler--using a bullet.	The bow was a weapon for simple times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets.	JH	1	ダン、タン	ひ.く、-ひ.き、はず.む、たま、はじ.く、はじ.ける、ただ.す、はじ.きゆみ	弾 (たま), 弾む (はず.む), 弾く (ひ.く)
2082	cherry tree	Anh (Anh đào)	桜	cherry tree, tree, wood, owl, woman	10	53	Tree . . . owl . . . woman.		I was taking a picture of my girlfriend under the cherry tree during 花見, when an owl happened to poop on her at the exact moment the shutter snapped. It´s really my favorite picture , just don´t tell her that.	The tree in Japan that represents both wisdom (the owl) and femininity (the woman). This is a sakura (さくら), or cherry tree.	5	1	オウ、ヨウ	さくら	桜 (さくら)
2083	animal	Thú	獣	animal, owl, rice field, brains, one, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop	16	53	Owl . . . rice field . . . one . . . mouth . . . chihuahua.		The owl looks for its prey in the rice field. It sees so many potential animals to eat but since it only has one mouth, it decides that the tasty looking chihuahua will be its meal for tonight. (adapted from Copycatken,1-9-2006).	"I have a strange story for this one but it works. I imagine a owl getting into a rice field which serves as a boxing ring. His opponent is a little chihuahua. The fight starts, the owl takes one punch to the mouth and is out cold. In the chihuahua´s corner is that coach from Rocky saying ""Your an ANIMAL!!"". A vivid image of this story works pretty well for me."	JH	1	ジュウ	けもの、けだもの	獣 (けもの)
2084	brain	NÃO	脳	brain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel	11	53	Part of the body . . . owl . . . villain. By way of exception, the kanji for brain has no connection with the primitive for brains.		The brain is the part of the body that can give you the wisdom of the owl... or the wickedness of the villain.	The brain is the part of the body that an owl will use to defeat the villain.	6	2	ノウ、ドウ	のうずる	
2085	trouble	NÃO (khổ não)	悩	trouble, Freud, state of mind, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel	10	53	State of mind . . . owl . . . villain.		The owl villain is the one that troubles me most of all the super-villains. He's just so smart... you never know what he'll do! Definitely enough to put you in a troubled state of mind.	You have troubles in the brain, not in the part of the body but in your state of mind. (see 脳 (#2084)).	JH	2	ノウ	なや.む、なや.ます、なや.ましい、なやみ	悩ます (なや.ます), 悩む (なや.む)
2086	stern	Nghiêm	厳	stern, owl, cliff, daring, spike, ear, taskmaster	17	53	Owl . . . cliff . . . daring.		This represents a stern looking owl, perched up on a cliff. This cliff is quite famous for daring individuals to cliff dive off of, but is any of them daring enough to threaten the owl?	"The daring mouse gets a stern look after he climbs onto the owl´s cliff...　RTK2:　ゲン　厳禁　　げんきん　(""Strickly Prohibited!"")　　　　　　　　　　　ゴン　華厳経　けごんギョウ(Avatamsaka Sutra)."	6	1	ゲン、ゴン	おごそ.か、きび.しい、いか.めしい、いつくし	厳格 (げんかく), 厳重 (げんじゅう), 威厳 (いげん), 厳か (おごそ.か), 厳しい (きび.しい)
2087	chain	Toả (phong toả)	鎖	chain, metal, gold, small, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	18	53	Metal . . . little . . . shells. We have saved this character until no win order to draw attention to the visual difference between the owl and little. By now your eyes should be so accustomed to these apparently infinitesimal differences that the point is obvious.		The chain on this chainsaw is made of little metal shells.	A gold chain with small seashells hanging on it is in fashion these days.	JH	1	サ	くさり、とざ.す	鎖 (くさり)
2088	raise	Cử	挙	raise, owl, tool, hand	10	53	Owl . . . tool . . . hand.		This is a special owl-luring tool. All you need is to raise it in your hand. Owl will come flying and perch on it right away.	The owl was asked to raise his hand if he needed anything, but he had a wing, not a hand! So he made a tool that looked like a hand which he used when he needed to raise his hand. For raiseing, owl has a tool hand.	4	1	キョ	あ.げる、あ.がる、こぞ.る	挙がる (あ.がる), 挙げる (あ.げる)
2089	reputation	Dự	誉	reputation, owl, tool, say, words, keitai, mouth	13	53	Owl . . . tool . . . saying.		This owl´s reputation skyrocketed after he created a tool in order to speak human words.	By word of mouth, owl-luring tool (raise (#1938)) gained a reputation of amazingly effective and reliable device.	JH	1	ヨ	ほま.れ、ほ.める	誉 (ほまれ)
2090	game hunting	LIỆP	猟	game hunting, pack of wild dogs, anemometer, owl, wind, cornstalk	11	53	Pack of wild dogs . . . owl . . . wind . . . cornstalk.		The WILD DOGS are GAME HUNTING the OWL who flies like the WIND through the CORN STORKS.	[game-hunting; shooting; game; bag] According to unicode.org and wwwjdic, 鼡 and 鼠 (mouse (#2065)) are variants. So, for 鼡 (which I´ll call rat) I have: an owl, flying in the wind, can easily spot a rat even if it´s hiding in the cornstalks. Now 猟 is easy: wild dogs are having fun by game-hunting rats.	JH	1	リョウ、レフ	かり、か.る	
2091	bird	ĐIỂU	鳥	bird, white, dove, one, tail feathers	11	53	Dove . . . one . . . tail feathers. This is, of course, the character from which we derived the primitive meaning of dove. Note the lengthening of the second stroke.		There is only one bird with such beautiful white tail feathers: the albino peakcock.	The BIRD let loose a WHITE ONE from it´s TAIL FEATHERS...right on my new car!	2	4	チョウ	とり	鳥 (とり)
2092	chirp	MINH	鳴	chirp, mouth, bird	14	53	Mouth . . . bird.		A chirp is quite simply the sound that comes from the mouth of birds.	This kanji is not limited to the chirp of a bird, but stands for the sound of any kind of animal. Picture a very weird bird that can imitate with its mouth (a bird with mouth, heh) the voice of many different animals: Meeow! Woof! Mooo! Cuack!!! (Maybe the bird has Kirby powers and obtains the abilities of the animals it eats).	2	3	メイ	な.く、な.る、な.らす	鳴く (な.く), 鳴らす (な.らす), 鳴る (な.る)
2093	crane	HẠC	鶴	crane, turkey house, bird	21	53	Turkey house . . . bird. The first element appears on only one other occasion, back in frame 609.		"The original version of the ""Ugly Duckling"" was about a crane who grew up in a turkey coop. All the other birds made fun of it for not having a wattle or a snood or fanning its tail..."	I ordered a crane to move my turkey coop, but they sent me this damn bird instead.	JH	1	カク	つる	鶴 (つる)
2094	crow	Ô	烏	crow, drop, mouth, one, tail feathers	10	53	The only thing that distinguishes this character from that for bird is the omission of the one stroke that makes it white. Which is logical enough, when you consider that there are no crows of that color.		The book´s story is just fine, but I found a kanji dictionary explanation also interesting: As crows are all black, it´s hard to see where their eyes are (black on black), so a stroke is removed from the part in the pictograph where the eyes would be.	A crow is a bird, but not a white one. MEANING: write bird, but skip writing one in white.	Names		ウ、オ	からす、いずくんぞ、なんぞ	
2095	vine	ĐIỂU	蔦	vine, flowers, bird	14	53	Flower . . . bird.		In the jungle there is a flowery vine called hedera rhombea that attracts humming birds by the dozens. They scoot around the flowers sucking up nectar off the vine.	"Note : if you´ll remember we already have a primitive for ""ivy"", but it was completely made up from the ""square jewel"" kanji. The kanji here refers to ivy, or vine, and is used in a particular compound for ""Hedera rhombea"", which is a type of ivy native to Japan. This vine here produces a lot of flowers, and attracts many small birds, which is sure to cheer up even the most depressed Japanese gardener."	Names	1	チョウ	つた	
2096	pigeon	CƯU	鳩	pigeon, nine, baseball, bird	13	53	Baseball . . . bird.		Feed one pigeon and nine more birds will be swarming you immediately…　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading.	Imagine some pigeons going to see a baseball game. They would surely be the only birds there!	Names	1	キュウ、ク	はと、あつ.める	
2097	chicken	KÊ	鶏	chicken, claw, vulture, husband, bird	19	53	Vulture . . . husband . . . bird.		The vulture's husband is a chicken...heck...who am I to judge their interspecies love? They're both birds so its cool.	There are two types of birds often compared to husbands. Yes there are a few vultures out there, but most husbands are CHICKENS. 鶏 【にわとり】 (n) (domestic) chicken, (P) 鶏肉 【けいにく】 (n) chicken meat, (P).	JH	1	ケイ	にわとり、とり	鶏 (にわとり)
2098	island	ĐẢO	島	island, bird, mountain	10	53	The bird's tail is tucked under here, because it has come to stop on a mountain to rest from its journey across the waters. Thus the kanji comes to mean an island.		This island is the home of the terrible mythical bird Roc. It sits mighty atop the mountain waiting for the next hapless ship to pass by.	Birds living on remote mountainous islands have few preditors. Tail feathers aren´t really needed are they? Evolutionary process at work!...　RTK2:　トウ　半島　はんとう(peninsula).	3	2	トウ	しま	島 (しま)
2099	warmth	NOÃN	暖	warmth, sun, day, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend	13	53	Unlike the character for warm weather learned earlier (Frame 1560), this kanji and its key word can also refer to the warmth of human congeniality. Its elements are: sun . . . migrating ducks.		Ducks migrate south for the winter... they follow the warmth of the sun.	A massive group of migrating ducks is blocking the warmth of the sun as they pass over your house/barbecue/picnic. Their formation is so humongous they block the warmth for a good 10 minutes while they pass over. Mnemonic for the migrating ducks primitive : the migrating ducks stick together like the best of friends, flying together as one (fifth stroke), they are not easy prey for the great eagles / vultures.	6	1	ダン、ノン	あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める	暖か (あたた.か), 暖かい (あたた.かい), 暖まる (あたた.まる), 暖める (あたた.める)
2100	beautiful woman	VIỆN	媛	beautiful woman, woman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend	12	53	Woman . . . migrating ducks.		You want to know about a beautiful woman? There´s a woman that´s so beautiful, the birds migrate to her instead of the sun!	As I saw the most beautiful woman on Earth, a flock of migrating ducks passed by and let their poop fly. That just ruined the moment...	JH	1	エン	ひめ	媛 (ひめ)
2101	abet	VIỆN	援	abet, finger, fingers, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend	12	53	Fingers . . . migrating ducks.		You abet the escape of migrating ducks by pointing them the way.	Aiding and abetting: You are accuse of abetting a drug dealer, by smuggling drugs in migrating ducks. Of course, this means you have to stick your fingers in their mouths.	JH	1	エン		
2102	slacken	HOÃN	緩	slacken, thread, spiderman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend	15	53	Thread . . . migrating ducks.		Oh no Spiderman has some migrating ducks stuck in his web, he has to slacken it so they can get out.	Spiderman is a slacken off. He lays around all day in the park watching migrating ducks...　RTK2:　カン　緩和　かんわ(mitigation).	JH	1	カン	ゆる.い、ゆる.やか、ゆる.む、ゆる.める	緩い (ゆる.い), 緩む (ゆる.む), 緩める (ゆる.める), 緩やか (ゆる.やか)
2103	belong	CHÚC	属	belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt	12	53	Flag . . . gnats (see frame 563) . . . with a belt.		These bugs BELONG TO an extremist group promoting insect independence. They are parading the FLAG of their group, the Nationalist GNATS, and wearing explosives BELTS for their planned terrorist war.	This FLAG BELONGS to the terror group called the GNATS, oftern seen wearing explosive BELTS. My opinion is they all BELONG in jail.	5	1	ゾク、ショク	さかん、つく、やから	
2104	entrust	CHÚC	嘱	entrust, mouth, belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt	15	53	Mouth . . . belong.		If you entrust me with something, my mouth belongs to you.	"The commando gnats entrusted their mouths to the translators and what came out was ""All your base are belong to us!"""	JH	1	ショク	しょく.する、たの.む	
2105	accidentally	NGẪU	偶	accidentally, person, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt	11	53	"The person on the left is familiar. As for the right side, we may combine the insect with a brain (observe the writing) and a belt to create the Talking Cricket who served as Pinocchio's conscience. (The belt is there because he pulls it off to give unrepentant little Pinocchio a bit of ""strap"" now and again.)"		"Mr. T accidentially stepped on Jiminy Cricket (a brainy insect, with a belt sort of sash to hold his ""conscience"" badge)."	Mr. T accidentally steps on Jiminy Cricket. // Primitive: right side: Talking cricket = Jiminy Cricket, a brainy insect with a belt to whip little kids who misbehave.	JH	3	グウ	たま	
2106	interview	NGỘ	遇	interview, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, road	12	53	Talking Cricket . . . road.		I was finally able to score an interview with the wisest being around: Jiminy Cricket. However, his schedule is really packed, so they had to squeeze me in while his tour bus rode between gigs. In fact, it was really short---after a few miles I was kicked out of the bus and stranded in the middle of the interstate. But man, it was worth it!	On the road to my interview I accidentally bump into Jiminy Cricket who gives me some good advice.	JH	1	グウ	あ.う	
2107	foolish	NGU	愚	foolish, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, heart	13	53	Talking Cricket . . . heart.		Don´t be foolish! says Jiminy Cricket as he lashes you with his belt. Follow logic, like me, not your heart.	"I simply imagine Jiminy Cricket jumping all over the place, like a mad man, yelling ""yeeeeehaaaaa!"". Maybe he just fell in love? Mnemonic - ""Jiminy Cricket has a foolish heart""."	JH	1	グ	おろ.か	愚か (おろ.か)
2108	corner	NGUNG	隅	corner, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt	12	53	Pinnacle . . . Talking Cricket.		Jiminy Cricket has a favorite corner he likes to slip into at The Pinnacle for a long drink.	Oh how the pious fall from their lofty pinnacles! Jiminy Cricket now deals drugs on the street corner.	JH	2	グウ	すみ	隅 (すみ)
2109	inverted	NGHỊCH	逆	inverted, mountain goat, horns, mountain, road	9	53	Mountain goat . . . road.		There´s a road that´s been inverted- it´s gone from horizontal to directly vertical! The only beast that could possibly climb it is a mountain goat of course.	This reminds me of a cartoon I saw once, perhaps it was with Donald Duck. he is startled and furious when he chases this mountain billygoat further and further up the mountain road, untill the angle is so steep that he finds himself inverted. And falls down, while the goat stands solidly placed inverted and laughs a goaty laughter as Donald plumments and makes that typical Donald shaped cartoon crater at the bottom.	5	2	ギャク、ゲキ	さか、さか.さ、さか.らう	逆 (さか), 逆らう (さか.らう)
2110	model	TỐ (đắp tượng)	塑	model, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, soil, dirt, ground	13	53	This kanji depicts the art of modeling clay or wood into a figure of your choice. The elements for composing it are: mountain goat . . . moon . . . soil.		A legend says that if you model a mountain goat (with tail and everything) from dirt and leave to the light of the moon on the 朔 (#2846), the dirt will became flesh. (blackstockc).	This guy is such a gifted sculptor. He can model a MOUNTAIN GOAT and a MOON with just SOIL mold.	JH	1	ソ	でく	
2112	Mount	CƯƠNG	岡	mount, glass canopy, hood, mountain goat, horns, mountain	8	53	"Here we see a mountain goat ""mounted"" under a glass canopy. In this and the following frames, think of a particular Mount you know."		White mount , Fuji mount , olympus mount whatever ....The choice is yours but wherever you go they sell those snowglobe souvenir : under a GLASS HOOD you can see the mount with a MOUTAIN GOAT standing on top of it .... So kitsch you just can´t forget it .	"This has the same meaning as 丘, so my ""Mount"" is a hill with mountain goats on it under a glass canopy. It´s obviously an effort by the locals to add some Mount atmosphere to their hill. As a primitive, it has the meaning ""sturdy"" (really), which Heisig has not used for some reason, but I will. The glass canopy must be pretty sturdy to keep the goats inside (bulletproof glass, I´m sure)."	JH		コウ	おか	岡 (おか)
2113	steel	CƯƠNG	鋼	steel, metal, gold, mount	16	53	Metal . . . Mount.		Mount Fuji is completely made up of a metal known as steel.	Ancient shamans predicted a time when there would be Mounts made of metal. The steel skyscrapers of today…　　　　　　　　RTK2: 　コウ　鋼鉄　こうてつ(steel)…　Semi-Pure Group:　綱1963　(ｺﾞｳ): 剛1964.	6	1	コウ	はがね	鋼 (はがね)
2114	hawser	CƯƠNG	綱	hawser, thread, spiderman, mount	14	53	Thread . . . Mount.		Spiderman saves Japan from floating away by tying Mt. Fuji to mainland Asia using a hawser made of web.	A sturdy thread is equally obviously hawser (heavy rope). (see previous frame).	JH	1	コウ	つな	綱 (つな)
2115	sturdy	CƯƠNG	剛	sturdy, mount, sword, sabre, saber	10	53	Mount . . . saber.		Mount everest is very sturdy, you can hit it all day with a saber and it wont even wobble.	Anything sturdy in Japan is associated with Mount Fuji. Perhaps this is because it´s symmetry is believed to make it rather sturdy itself, unlike all those crooked mountains that are around and tend to fall apart (think rock slides, avalanches, etc.). Here we see Sturdy-brand sabers with Mount Fuji engraved on the blade.	JH	1	ゴウ		
2116	tin can	PHỮU	缶	tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel	6	53	Though the meaning has no reference to animals, the parts do: horse with a mountain underneath.		Horses kept in the mountains have a unique savory taste. At least so the text on this tin can would have us believe, which contains 100% authentic mountain horse.	The starving horse, stranded on the mountain, is forced to eat a tasty tin can.	JH	2	カン	かま	
2117	pottery	ĐÀO	陶	pottery, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, bound up, tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel	11	53	Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . tin can.		Pottery is used for food preservation, the pinnacle of which today is food bound up in tin cans.	This chinese man was making the best china pottery in all of ... China. For some reason he insisted on working at the top of a pinnacle, away from the distractions of the world. He kept in touch with the local people, and took orders, through bound tin cans (tin cans bound with rope, the children's version of the telephone).	JH	1	トウ		
2118	swing	DAO	揺	swing, finger, fingers, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain	12	53	Fingers . . . condor.		For the condor primitive: A condor is like a vulture, but twice as big and it lives near mountains (a suitable place for such a majestic bird). For swing: I´m sitting on a swing when a condor comes by and picks up the whole swing set with its big finger-like claws and now I´m swinging in mid-air. Weeeeeeeee!!!!!	Primitive: A condor is like a vulture but twice the size and lives in mountainous regions (+1 Elphalpo). Story: I swing my fingers back and forth, trying to fend off the attacking condor.	JH	1	ヨウ	ゆ.れる、ゆ.る、ゆ.らぐ、ゆ.るぐ、ゆ.する、ゆ.さぶる、ゆ.すぶる、うご.く	揺さぶる (ゆ.さぶる), 揺すぶる (ゆ.すぶる), 揺する (ゆ.する), 揺らぐ (ゆ.らぐ), 揺る (ゆ.る), 揺るぐ (ゆ.るぐ), 揺れる (ゆ.れる)
2119	Noh chanting	DAO (sự kể lại)	謡	noh chanting, say, words, keitai, mouth, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain	16	53	Words . . . condor.		"Noh chanting?!? I meant ""NO CHANTING!"" Now all you, just shut up! Not another word! Don´t you know that chanting can provoke attacks from the local condor? So, no chanting, and especially no Noh chanting."	Picture guy dressed in a condor mask up on stage during Noh performance chanting some words nobody understands.	JH	1	ヨウ	うた.い、うた.う	謡う (うた.う), 謡 (うたい)
2121	concerning	TỰU	就	concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg	12	53	Capital . . . chihuahua with a human leg in place of one of its paws.		In the capital they have been having hearings concerning bioethics and bioengineering they call as their first witness a chihuahua with one human leg.	Ahem...CONCERNING your recent science fair project, it was a CAPITAL idea, but the CHIHUAHUA with a HUMAN LEG is freaking out the other contestants!	6	1	シュウ、ジュ	つ.く、つ.ける	就任 (しゅうにん), 就寝 (しゅうしん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 就く (つ.く), 就ける (つ.ける)
2123	sociable	KHẨN (khẩn khoản, khẩn cầu)	懇	sociable, skunk, silver, heart	17	53	Skunk . . . silver . . . heart.		"The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver (since he always finishes second in the game of love)."	"The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver."	JH	1	コン	ねんご.ろ	懇ろ (ねんご.ろ)
2124	groundbreaking	KHẨN (khai khẩn)	墾	groundbreaking, skunk, silver, soil, dirt, ground	16	53	The groundbreaking referred to here is not for the erection of new buildings but for the opening of farmlands. The elements: skunk . . . silver . . . soil.		It was the groundbreaking of the new farm, but there was an uninvited guest to the ceremony. It was a famous skunk, the one with the familiar silver stripe. The feet of the crowd rushing from the ceremony site churned up the soil very nicely. The ceremony was ruined but the groundbreaking was a great success.	I got sprayed by a skunk, so no one is helping me with the groundbreaking of my farm. On a positive note, I found silver laying all over the soil. Mine all mine!	JH	1	コン		
2126	excuse	MIỄN	免	excuse, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs	8	53	This character is used for excusing oneself for a failure of courtesy. The elements are: bound up . . . sun (oddly enough, laid on its side) . . . human legs.	* For the primitive meaning, we shall refer to this character as a rabbit, for which the old form of the character is 兔.	Obviously this is the rabbit from Alice, excusing himself and rushing away on his legs, as he has a binding day schedule. This is at the same time an image, with bound=ears, day=head and legs are just legs. The image is used in rabbit (#2093).	What is the rabbit´s excuse for being such a jerk? Well he was bound up for a whole day while being stepped on by peoples human legs in some make-up labratory. Yeah I think I can excuse him after knowing that.	JH	1	メン	まぬか.れる、まぬが.れる	免れる (まぬか.れる)
2127	elude	DẬT	逸	deviate, elude, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, road	11	53	Rabbit . . . road.		Word play to differentiate elude/evade: elude ~= e-lewd. Alice is following Mr. Rabbit on the road. Mr. Rabbit flashes her in a lewd way and disappears, completely eluding her.	Even though the white rabbit was late, he eluded the wrath of the the Queen of Hearts because Alice was coming up the road.	JH	1	イツ	そ.れる、そ.らす、はぐ.れる	
2128	nightfall	VÃN	晩	nightfall, sun, day, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs	12	53	Sun . . . rabbit.		At nightfall the sun excuses itself and goes to sleep.	This is EASY!!! Japanese people see a RABBIT ON THE MOON (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_rabbit ) and so nightfall is when the sun leaves to make way for the rabbit.	6	3	バン		
2129	exertion	MIỄN	勉	exertion, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, power, muscle, arnold	10	53	Rabbit . . . muscle. Notice how the last stroke of rabbit is stretched out to underlie the element for muscle.		When RABBITS hop around, they EXERT tremendous force using their MUSCULAR legs.	The energizer bunny's exertion of power keeps going and going...	3	4	ベン	つと.める	
2130	elephant	TƯỢNG	象	elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig	12	53	"A rabbit's head with the body of a sow represents an elephant. Little wonder that the kanji also means ""phenomenon""!"		An elephant has huge ears, like a rabbit, and a big, fat body, like a sow.	"An animal with huge ears like a rabbit, and a body fat like a pig... ¡An ELEPHANT! For the ""phenomenon"" connotation you could use Dumbo, or Joseph Merrick (the ""elephant man"") ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Merrick )."	4	2	ショウ、ゾウ	かたど.る	象徴 (しょうちょう), 対象 (たいしょう), 現象 (げんしょう)
2131	statue	TƯỢNG	像	statue, person, elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig	14	53	Person . . . elephant.		Statues of people are made the same size as statues of elephants.	One of the most famous statues is of course the Statue of Liberty, which is known for the first thing a person sees when coming into New York. However, did you know that the first thing a person used to see (between the years of 1885 to 1896) was actually a huge elephant statue on Coney Island? It's true too... ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coney_Island - search Coney Island Elephant).	5	2	ゾウ		
2132	horse	Mã	馬	horse, team of horses	10	54	Let the extra vertical stroke in the mane combine with the first vertical stroke to give an image of the horse's long neck. The only odd thing is the tail feathers at the end, but that should present a good image to remember the character by. The fact that the last stroke of mane and the first of tail feathers coincide should no longer surprise you.	* As a primitive, this kanji will mean a team of horses as distinct from the single horse whose primitive we met earlier.	"Turkey with the drops at the top removed and tail feathers added (this matches stroke order and there are the tail feathers already, why not have the whole bird). If you take the two drops of 隹 as wings, then horses are like turkeys, but have no wings and have more prominent tail ""feathers"". Both are actually supposed to be pictographs, though."	"The top part is half a comb (see frame 1920) with an extra vertical stroke to account for a sturdier version used to comb a horse mane. As a primitive I used the theme of the Trojan Horse. Not the modern computer viruses, but the large wooden horse which led to the demise of Troy and of the Trojans. Either its size (much greater than a live horse), or the fact that it conceals things into its belly, will set it appart from the horse primitive that came in frame 568 (""noon"")."	2	3	バ	うま、うま-、ま	馬 (うま)
2133	pony	CÂU	駒	pony, team of horses, phrase, bound up, mouth	15	54	Team of horses . . . phrase. In American slang, a pony is an underground translation of a classical text, which students who cannot manage the difficult phrases of the original language consult and pass on from one generation to the next.		The cute little innocent-looking plastic pony on the desk of a student is in fact a trojan horse, hiding phrases in its belly which are used for cheating during an exam. No pony will be permitted on desks during tests!	"A particular My Little Pony has a string that when you pull it, it repeats the same dumb phrase like ""I love you""."	JH	1	ク	こま	駒 (こま)
2134	verification	NGHIỆM	験	verification, team of horses, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person	18	54	Team of horses . . . awl.		We just verification that there are indeed no soldiers in the belly of this trojan horse. We´re just gonna stab it in the belly with this awl to check.	The verification proves the horse is real by poking it with an ice pick.	4	4	ケン、ゲン	あかし、しるし、ため.す、ためし	試験 (しけん), 経験 (けいけん), 実験 (じっけん)
2135	equestrian	KỊ	騎	equestrian, team of horses, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth	18	54	Team of horses . . . strange.		Equestrian events are where you get horses to do strange things.	If the equestrian team used trojan horses, it would be really strange.	JH	1	キ		
2136	parking	TRÚ	駐	stop-over, parking, team of horses, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball	15	54	Team of horses . . . candlestick.		Parking in the dark may be difficult...specially if you're parking a trojan horse. To lend you a tiny bit of help, take this candlestick with you, and at least you'll have some light.	In the olden days parking lots used to have reserved spaces for where the lord (of the set of houses, shops, whatever) could park his team of horses. nowadays it´s pretty much the same...reserved parking in front for the big bosses´ cars....	JH	2	チュウ		
2137	drive	KHU	駆	drive, team of horses, ward, box, sheaf	14	54	Team of horses . . . ward.		You have to be craaazzzzyy to drive a buggy led by a team of horses through a ward of Tokyo!	You use teams of horses to drive you and your carriage around the ward.	JH	1	ク	か.ける、か.る	駆ける (か.ける), 駆る (か.る)
2138	station	DỊCH	駅	station, team of horses, shaku-hachi, flag, stick	14	54	Team of horses . . . shakuhachi.		Anyone living in Japan knows that train stations play little melodies when the train is about to arrive. In Ye Olden Days, when horses and carriages were used for transport, the carriage driver would play a little melody on his shakuhachi to let the passengers know the carriage was arriving at the next station.	A homeless horse playing the flute at the station to make a dime.	3	4	エキ		
2139	boisterous	TAO	騒	boisterous, team of horses, crotch, insect	18	54	Team of horses . . . crotch . . . insect.		The hidden Greeks inside the Trojan Horse are getting boisterous as one of them is bitten in the crotch by a nasty insect. If they don't shut up, the Trojans will hear them...	Or more precisely: the team of horses are getting boisterous because one of them got bitten in the crotch by a horse fly. The kanji also means to roar, make up noise, to kick up a fuss and to make merry. Perhaps it is exactly the etymology behind this kanji.	JH	1	ソウ	さわ.ぐ、うれい、さわ.がしい	騒ぐ (さわ.ぐ)
2140	burdensome	ĐÀ	駄	burdensome, team of horses, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop	14	54	Team of horses . . . plump.		If a passenger is too plump and heavy, its too burdensome for the horse.	If your horses get so plump to be good for nothing they just become burdensome.	JH	1	ダ、タ		
2141	wonder	KINH	驚	wonder, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, team of horses	22	54	Awe . . . team of horses.		You stand in AWE at the 8th WONDER of the world, a huge TROJAN HORSE.	"This is another word for surprise. 驚く＝おどろく= surprise. The Trojans stood in awe of the magnificent Trojan Horse that they thought was a gift. But imagine their surprise (wonder) when a bunch of Greeks came rushing out of it! (To further cement the connection between the primitives, if needed: It´s a wonder that the Trojans managed to speak keigo 敬語 even then, saying ""わたくしたちを殺さないでください!!お願い致します!!"")."	JH	1	キョウ	おどろ.く、おどろ.かす	驚かす (おどろ.かす), 驚く (おどろ.く)
2142	fervent	ĐỐC	篤	fervent, bamboo, team of horses	16	54	Bamboo . . . team of horses.		A fervent horse doesnt need to be whipped with a bamboo stick during a race, it will go fast by itself.	A fervent history otaku rebuild the the Trojan Horse. But since he was Japanese, he used bamboo instead of normal wood.	JH	1	トク	あつ.い	
2144	inflation	ĐẰNG	騰	inflation, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, team of horses	20	54	Meat . . . quarter . . . team of horses.		Inflation is rampant: a month ago, I could buy a horse with this money, but now, only a quarter of a horse.	Every quarter moon, the cost of a trojan horse rises one quarter by inflation.	JH	1	トウ		
2145	tiger	HỔ	虎	tiger, magic wand, augury, cliff, hook, diced, seven, human legs	8	54	The kanji in this frame recalls the famous Bengali fable about the group of magicians (the magic wand) who decided to make a tiger. It seems that each of them knew how to make one part of the beast, so they pooled their talents and brought all the pieces (diced into pieces) together, at which point the fabricated tiger promptly ate its makers up (the bodiless human legs). Whatever the parable's significance for modern civilization and its arsenals, it should help with this kanji. Oh yes, we should not forget that cliff-like element. Think of it as an abbreviation of the primitive for zoo (the first and fourth strokes, actually), in order to fit the tiger somewhere into the picture. In fact, the abbreviation is perfectly logical, since the bottom elements usurp the room for the rest of the primitive for zoo.	* As a primitive element itself, the human legs are also swallowed up, but the meaning of tiger is kept, and the whole serves as a roof for what comes beneath 虍, giving the tiger something else to eat.	Magic wand + first two strokes of pelt (皮) + diced + human legs. A wizard who turns people he doesn´t like into newts with his magic wand goes for variety - he has always wanted a tiger pelt - but things go awry when the tiger promptly dices and eats him, leaving only a pair of legs. (a fitting end for a wicked wizard).	"Tigger, the tiger, (from Pooh stories) is happy to have found a magic wand. Using it he can bounce up to a the top of a cliff, seven times as high as some human legs could bounce. Tigger thinks ""Its great to be a tiger!"	JH	1	コ	とら	虎 (とら)
2146	captive	LỖ	虜	captive, tiger, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold	13	54	Tiger . . . man.		Captive men are thrown to the tigers. I think you can imagine something else is done to captive women...	"Tip: To avoid confusing keyword captive with captured (#1018) note that captive contains ""ti"" for tiger."	JH	1	リョ、ロ	とりこ、とりく	
2147	skin	PHU	膚	skin, tiger, stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	15	54	Tiger . . . stomach.		Ending up in a tiger´s stomach is not good for your skin, as it´s full of stomach acids.	"They say, ""there's more than one way to skin a cat"", but if you try to skin a tiger you might end up in its stomach."	JH	2	フ	はだ	
2148	void	HƯ	虚	void, tiger, row	11	54	Tigers . . . row.		In Japanese folklore there is no hell, but there is the void. There, a row of tigers waits in the blackness to devour those souls who have failed in their spiritual life.	Warning to Sigfreid and Roy: Your entertainment contract will be null and void unless you can make all the tigers stand in a row.	JH	1	キョ、コ	むな.しい、うつ.ろ	虚無 (きょむ), 虚偽 (きょぎ), 空虚 (くうきょ)
2149	frolic	HÍ	戯	frolic, void, tiger, row, fiesta	15	54	Void . . . fiesta.		This is a story about the end of the universe. The universe is turning into a featureless void. There´s nothing we can do about it except for throw a fiesta and frolic a little bit before it´s all over.	Sigfreid and Roy´s contract having been voided, the tiger is free to frolic about at the fiesta.	JH	1	ギ、ゲ	たわむ.れる、ざ.れる、じゃ.れる	戯れる (たわむ.れる)
2150	uneasiness	NGU	虞	uneasiness, tiger, give, mouth, chair, tool	13	54	Tiger . . . give.		I feel a sense of uneasiness about giving this HUGE tiger a steak.	My dear friend, a Bengali merchant, gave me a tiger as a birthday present. I felt uneasiness, knowing that I´ll have to reject it. Or was it horror?	JH	1	グ	おそれ、おもんぱか.る、はか.る、うれ.える、あざむ.く、あやま.る、のぞ.む、たの.しむ	虞 (おそれ)
2151	prudence	LỰ	慮	prudence, tiger, think, rice field, brains, heart	15	54	Tiger . . . think.		"Real meaning: ""to ponder"". You have to think with prudence (ponder carefully) about approaching a tiger, as is evident from 虎."	You have to think with prudence about approaching a tiger. If not, it will eat your brains and heart. Thanks raulir.	JH	1	リョ	おもんぱく.る、おもんぱか.る	
2152	drama	KỊCH	劇	drama, tiger, sow, pig, sword, sabre, saber	15	54	Tiger . . . sow . . . saber.		There would be a lot of drama if a tiger tried to eat a sow but then the sow attacked it with a saber.	A great Indian drama acted out every year is how a poor Bengali boy fended off the tigers from his pigs using only a sabre.	6	2	ゲキ		
2153	tyrannize	NGƯỢC	虐	tyrannize, tiger, one, box	9	54	Tiger . . . box with a one in it (or a backwards broom, if that makes it easier).		Here we see the evil tyrannizing tiger. What is on his chest? A giant E, for EVIL, of course.	"The ""E"" shape actually means claws here, and the real etymology is a tiger tyrannizing other animals with its claws (the etymologies actually make sense once in a blue moon!). I think of the claws here as two hooks, representing the front paws. (stroke order of that part: 二＋last of 直)."	JH	1	ギャク	しいた.げる	虐げる (しいた.げる)
2154	deer	LỘC	鹿	deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	11	54	"Drawn on the walls of a complex of caves near Niaux in southern France are a number of animal likenesses dating from the Upper Paleolithic period. Among them we find pictures of deer, some of them showing men in deer masks. By comparing their drawings to real deer, Stone Age people hoped to acquire power over the animal in the hunt; and by comparing themselves to the deer, to take on that animal's characteristics. But time has locked with a ""double-key"" (the extra stroke through the element for key) the real secret of this art form from us, and we can only surmise such meanings. But more important than the enigmas of the troglodytic mind is the way in which caves, a double-key, and comparing gives us the kanji for deer."	* As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated much the same as the tiger was: the lower element is dropped to leave room for a replacement. Its meaning, however, remains the same. There are a very few cases (see frame 2158) in which there is no abbreviation. When this happens, we may keep the image suggested by the above explanation: painting of a deer.	Bambi wanders into a cave and sees a side order of salad and 2 spoons...but what´s the main course?	Santa´s reindeer, Rudolf, opens a nightclub in a cave. It´s popular with all the deer and reindeer in the world. The cave speciality is a salad w/ dressing on the side. There is no other deer club that can compare. How many other deer nightclubs are there?	JH	1	ロク	しか、か	鹿 (しかか)
2156	recommend	TIẾN	薦	recommend, flowers, deer, cave, antlers, slingshot, catapult, tail feathers	16	54	Flowers . . . deer . . . one . . . tail feathers. Note the doubling up in these last two elements as in frame 2091.		For tonight's dinner (says the waiter) I would recommend the Deer. It is very special because it has been fed with flowers all it's life, has been killed with a slingshot (so there is no gun powder in it) and right now it is in the cooking fire. The meaning: recommend; mat; advise; encourage; offer.	It is recommended that deers stick to eating flowers. If they try to eat birds, they may end up choking on them, like this one here. Note that the head (白) is gone and the visible part of the body which is normally written with a stroke of the head must by necessity be drawn with a stroke of the tail.	JH	1	セン	すす.める	薦める (すす.める)
2157	jubilation	KHÁNH, KHƯƠNG, KHANH	慶	jubilation, deer, cave, antlers, crown, heart, walking legs	15	54	Deer . . . crown (note the doubling up) . . . heart . . . walking legs. You may recall that we met the relative primitives at the bottom here before, in the kanji for melancholy (Frame 663).		"The hunter experienced jubilation when the deer with melancholy walked up to him and said, ""just shoot me, whats the point in running. Everyone dies someday..."""	Bambi was melancholy at the death of his mother, but is now in jubilation as he´s made friends with thumper.	JH	1	ケイ	よろこ.び	
2158	lovely	LỆ	麗	lovely, one, ceiling, mediocre, deer, cave, antlers, compare, ceiling2, mediocre2, compare2	19	54	The painting of a deer itself with its form and color is enough to fill the bill for an image of something lovely. But to give a bit of contrast, we see two mediocre drawings from a later age on two patches of ceiling above. Note that the drop in mediocre has been lengthened somewhat and the second stroke drawn down straight.		"The anthropologist made an exact deer painting from the cave ceiling on the ceiling of his house. Too bad they´re both mediocre. All his wife could say was, ""How...lovely.""."	Lovely bambi.... pictographe : just take a look at those innocent open eyes (part 1 it´s not more far fetched than seeing mediocre in it) with thin eyebrows what a lovely deer ...(part 2).	JH	1	レイ	うるわ.しい、うら.らか	麗しい (うるわ.しい)
2159	bear	HÙNG	熊	bear, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, oven-fire, barbecue, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	14	54	Elbow . . . meat . . . spoon ATOP spoon . . . oven fire.		Most don´t know it, but bears have the ability to walk on fire. They´re invincible creatures!	"Note : I don´t know why James Heisig put ""bear"" ahead of ""ability"" (next frame), but I sugget to skip this, learn the next kanji (""ability"") then go back here and use ability as a primitive."	JH	1	ユウ	くま	熊 (くま)
2160	ability	NĂNG	能	ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	10	54	Try relating this kanji to that of the previous frame. For instance, you might imagine that the test of ability envisioned here is removing the bear from the oven fire.		The amputee has no hands but only stumps of flesh beneath his elbows. To give him the ability to eat he has two spoons implanted in his arm stumps, one in each side.	"Kid from the Oracle´s place in the Matrix (whose head is shining like the moon) is holding a a spoon and making it bend using his special ability. When Neo asks to learn this ability the child replies, "" Remember the truth Neo, there is no spoon."" Neo Proceeds to the kitchen pondering these words of wisdom. The Child smiles mischeviously and pulls a second spoon hidden up his sleeve in the crook of his elbow. ""That´s right Neo,"" the child laughs, ""there is no spoon...there are two spoons!""."	5	3	ノウ	よ.く	
2161	attitude	THÁI	態	attitude, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, heart, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	14	54	Ability . . . heart.		This guy has an attitude problem – lots of ability, but his heart´s not in it.	Having a good attitude means believing in your heart that you have the ability to do anything - like memorizing more than 2000 kanji, for example.	5	1	タイ	わざ.と	
2162	sign of the tiger	DẦN	寅	sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight	11	55	House . . . ceiling . . . sprout . . . animal legs. Compare, and do not confuse with, the kanji in frame 1887.		If you draw the sign of the tiger on the ceiling of your house, you will sprout tiger's legs (animal legs) and be able to run and pounce like the big cats yourself.	The sign of the tiger is that he´s eaten all of the yellow (#1750) salad in the house.	Names	1	イン	とら	
2163	performance	DIỄN	演	performance, water, water droplets, water pistol, sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight	14	55	Water . . . sign of the tiger.		That was some great performance! He caused the water to shoot up into the air and form the sign of the tiger in airborne droplets. You sure missed a great performance!	"I remember seeing advertisements growing up with the sign of the tiger saying to ""Put a tiger in your tank"", meaning that it would increase the performance of the drops of gasoline you put in."	5	3	エン		
2164	sign of the dragon	THẦN	辰	sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	7	55	Cliff . . . two . . . hairpins.		In sign of the dragon, Bruce Lee is such a badass he climbed a sheer vertical cliff using only 2 hairpins.	"The kid said ""I don´t believe you! Dragons don´t exist!"" so we made a little surprise for him: we pinned a huge dragon (it was just a sign really) on a nearby cliff. ""Whoaaa! Dragon!"" the kid said. ""But why won´t it move?"" ""I tell you why, cause it´s pinned there with two hairpins"" I thought to myself."	Names	1	シン、ジン	たつ	
2165	embarrass	NHỤC	辱	embarrass, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, glue	10	55	Sign of the dragon . . . glue.		If you get too close to a fire-breathing dragon, your skin can turn red from the burn. When someone is embarrassed, it's as though they have this sign of the dragon stuck to their face.	The sign of the dragon falls off the cliff, to our great embarassment (see sign of the dragon (#2008)) We should have glued it there!	JH	1	ジョク	はずかし.める	辱める (はずかし.める)
2166	quake	CHẤN	震	quake, rain, weather, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	15	55	Weather . . . sign of the dragon.		An earthquake is a sign that a dragon is awakening after a heavy rain... It is angry for having been woken up and it makes the earth thunder and quake above it.	Instant mythology: When heavy rains disturb a dragon hiding under the earth, an earthquake may result.	JH	2	シン	ふる.う、ふる.える	震う (ふる.う), 震える (ふる.える)
2167	shake	CHẤN	振	shake, finger, fingers, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	10	55	Fingers . . . sign of the dragon.		Your fingers will be crushed if you shake hands with Bruce Lee.	If you're talking to someone and notice that theirfingers are starting to shake, it's often a sign of the dragon being behind you where the other person can see him coming.	JH	1	シン	ふ.る、ぶ.る、ふ.り、-ぶ.り、ふ.るう	振る (ふ.る), 振るう (ふ.るう)
2168	with child	THẦN	娠	with child, woman, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	10	55	Woman . . . sign of the dragon. The key word is a synonym for pregnant, whose character we met earlier (Frame 546). Although the two kanji are often used together, they should be kept distinct.		Any woman spending a night with the virile Bruce Lee is bound to end up with child.	"The woman hides the dragon from poachers under her shirt, pretending she's with child. ""Seen any sign of the dragon?"" ask the poachers. ""Nope, haven't seen him,"" replies the woman."	JH	1	シン		
2169	lips	THẦN	唇	lips, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth	10	55	Sign of the dragon . . . mouth.		Sign of the Dragon + Mouth: Lips need chapstick during the wintertime so they don't look like the sign of the dragon who kissed you on the mouth.	As I approached her lips, I began to sense the sign of the dragon breath coming from her mouth, and I almost fainted.	JH	1	シン	くちびる	唇 (くちびる)
2170	agriculture	NÔNG	農	agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	13	55	Bend . . . sign of the dragon.		Imagine if you could bend a dragon to your will. Helpful in war, yes, but also a boon for agriculture. The dragon could use its sharp claws to plough the ground, and use its firey breath to clear the land. But first you'd have to bend the dragon to your will -- not an easy task.	It's a good agricultural sign when, as the farmer is bending down, he discovers some plants arranged in the sign of the dragon. It means the weather and earth will be supportive of the crops.	3	2	ノウ		
2171	concentrated	NÙNG	濃	concentrated, water, water droplets, water pistol, agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin	16	55	Among other things, the key word refers to the thick consistency of liquids. Its elements: water . . . agriculture.		The agriculture of Florida is concentrated on making concentrated orange juice. Just add water! Imagine a can of FCOJ, dumping it into a pitcher and adding water.	Concentrated water is going to revolutionize the agriculture! Just add water... oh wait...	JH	2	ノウ	こ.い	濃い (こ.い)
2172	send off	TỐNG	送	escort, send off, golden calf, horns, heavens, road	9	55	Road . . . golden calf.		After worshipping the golden calf, God sent the Jews on a long road through the wilderness.	The woolly mammoth got quite a send off before he wandered up that road never to be seen alive again.	3	4	ソウ	おく.る	送る (おく.る)
2173	connection	QUAN	関	connection, gates, golden calf, horns, heavens	14	55	Gates . . . golden calf.		There's a weird connection between worshipping the golden calf and visiting the gates of Hell.	The wooly mammoth Smashes the gates down restoring the connection between the glacier and the low lands.	4	3	カン	せき、-ぜき、かか.わる、からくり、かんぬき	関 (せき)
2174	blossom	TIẾU	咲	blossom, mouth, golden calf, horns, heavens	9	55	Mouth . . . golden calf.		Evil blossoms from the mouths of those who worship the golden calf. (Playing it safe and avoiding the image of a flower completely).	From the mouth of the hell hound blossoms, not flowers, but evil spawns of DOOOOOOM.	JH	2	ショウ	さ.く、-ざき	咲く (さ.く)
2175	ghost	QUỶ	鬼	ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow	10	55	Drop of . . . brains . . . human legs . . . elbow.		Ghosts aren't very intelligent - they have but a drop of brains - so can't tell the difference between an elbow and a pair of human legs.	A ghost, or oni, wandering slowly on its human legs, searching for brains to eat. What looks like an elbow here is actually a pictoral representation of the forked tail protruding out of its rear.	JH	1	キ	おに、おに-	鬼 (おに)
2176	ugly	XÚ	醜	ugly, whiskey bottle, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow	17	55	Whiskey bottle . . . ghost.		The ugly oni can´t get a date so he drinks sake by himself at the bar.	Drinking too much whisky can make you as ugly as an oni.	JH	1	シュウ	みにく.い、しこ	醜い (みにく.い)
2177	soul	HỒN	魂	soul, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, elbow2	14	55	Rising cloud of . . . ghosts.		When you die, your SOUL either goes to the RISING CLOUDS (heaven) or to the ONI (hell, the devil).	When we die, our soul rises up in a ghostlike rising cloud of mist up to heaven (we hope) (Adapted from darg_sama,28-10-2005).	JH	1	コン	たましい、たま	魂 (たましい)
2178	witch	MA	魔	witch, hemp, cliff, grove, tree, wood, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, tree2, wood2	21	55	Hemp . . . ghost. Take care not to confuse with the primitive of the same name we learned earlier (Frame 458).		The witch sold me some hemp that made me see ghosts don´t do drugs.	This modern version of the witch lives in some hippie community. She smokes a lot of hemp, and spends the day talking to ghosts, which not surprisingly appears only to her.	JH	1	マ		
2179	fascination	MỊ	魅	fascination, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, not yet, one, tree, wood	15	55	Ghost . . . not yet.		Ghosts have not yet left the world, they must still have a deep fascination with their past life on Earth.	"Here the ""Ghostbusters"" founder talks about his fascination for ghosts (picture Dan Arkroyd in the movie if that helps). He says he has a fascination for ghosts ever since he saw one as a teenager. Since then he´s been scouring all of the world, trying to capture them on tape, on video... A journalist asks ""When will it end ? Aren´t you tired of chasing ghosts ?"" ""Oh no, not yet ! Not until I become a ghost myself anyway !""."	JH	1	ミ		
2180	clod	KHỐI	塊	clod, soil, dirt, ground, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow	13	55	Soil . . . ghost.		This word somehow reminds me of a golem... an oni made from soil.	All too often I find myself vaccuming clods of dirt with my Dirt Devil.	JH	1	カイ、ケ	かたまり、つちくれ	塊 (かたまり)
2181	attack	TẬP	襲	attack, old dragon, vase, stand up, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, slingshot, catapult, snake, self, three, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment, dragon*	22	55	Vase . . . meat . . . slingshot (doubled up with) snake . . . three . . . garment. The top half of this character is the old form for the kanji in frame 575.		"The top 16 strokes are the chinese radical for ""dragon"". Joining up both meanings of the radical we can name the top part of this kanji ""imperial dragon"". Two-headed snakes do exist as biological curiosities, and they look a bit like a slingshot (with the heads splitting at a junction). Our imperial dragon here, the pet of a Chinese emperor, is a rare ""three-headed slingshot-snake"" kept in a vase and fed with meat. When the emperor attacked neighbours, his army wore the imperial dragon garment."	You attack an old dragon 龍 and take his clothes. REF: dragon [old] (#2981).	JH	1	シュウ	おそ.う、かさ.ね	襲う (おそ.う)
2182	upbraid	HÁCH	嚇	menacing, upbraid, mouth, incandescent, red, red2	17	56			To upbraid someone, you criticize them in a menacing way. In other words, you jaw at them with your MOUTH until both sides of their face turn RED (hence the double-red).	"Tip: Heisig later names 赫 ""red + red"" as incandescent (#2908). Story: ""So the boss upbraided you, huh?"". ""Yep, his mouth was incandescent."	JH	1	カク	おど.かす	
2183	majestic plural	TRẪM	朕	majestic plural, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, golden calf, horns, heavens	10	56			"The king says ""Only We are allowed to partake of the flesh of the golden calf."""	"The queen is not happy. ""We (majestic plural) are not amused that the hunger for the flesh of the wooly mammoth has caused it's extinction. Poor Charles is particularly upset."	JH	1	チン		
2184	atmosphere	PHÂN	雰	atmosphere, rain, weather, part	12	56			The part of the sky that is responsible for weather and rain is known as the atmosphere. It only occupies part of the sky though.	(This is atmosphere as in ambiance, mood). Rain is only part of the atmosphere for a romantic porch date. Food, music, and candles are the rest.	JH	1	フン		
2185	item	CÁ	箇	item, bamboo, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	14	56			"You´ve entered in a chinese shop where apparently the only item in sale is old, dusty, hardened bamboo (for construction for example). It looks like these items have been there forever. Asking the clerk if anything else is available, he doesn´t understand and instead asks - ""Two items? Three items?"" (the kanji is a counter for items) - thinking you want to buy something."	Dragon Quest - You find a hardened bamboo stick, perfect for a weapon, but you can´t pick it up because your items are full.	JH	1	カ、コ		
2186	tempering	LUYỆN	錬	tempering, metal, gold, east, tree, wood, sun, day	16	56			Tempering should be done with the metal facing east. (If not, the metal may pick up the earth´s magnetic field).	In the East, especially Japan ...there are masters of tempering metal to great strength....on the Spring of Trivia show in Japan I saw how a Japanese sword ...actually split flying bullets...all because of special Eastern tempering techniques.	JH	1	レン	ね.る	
2187	abide by	TUÂN	遵	abide by, revered, Mother Teresa, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue, road	15	56			You must abide by the revered rules of the road! No devil´s brew and stay glued to your lane in the road!	Even the most revered person must still abide by the rules of the road -- no exceptions are granted to anyone.	JH	1	ジュン		
2188	quit	BÃI	罷	quit, eye, cross-eyed, net, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	15	56			Hey, screw you! Don´t you look down on me! I have the ability to quit anytime I want!	My eye doesn´t seem to have the ability to quit staring at her...　　　　　RTK2:　ヒ　罷業　ひぎょう(a walkout).	JH	1	ヒ	まか.り-、や.める	
2189	barracks	TRUÂN (đồn)	屯	barracks, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook	4	56			The game characters from Worms sleep in their barracks at night.	Earthworm jim sleeps in a barracks because he is a soldier... apparently.	JH	1	トン		
2190	moreover	THẢ	且	moreover, shelf, my bookshelves	5	56			Moreover is a literary term to shelve what you had just been talking about, to come back to it later.	"Same as darg_sama. Play on words. I imagine visiting someone who has an impressive collection of medals and trophies (chess champion, for example). After spending an hour showing you all the trophies in the glass shelf, you think ""Whew! It´s over."" ... but the person says ""... and wait, there´s ""moreover"" !"", pointing at more trophies lined atop the glass shelf."	JH	1	ショ、ソ、ショウ	か.つ	且つ (か.つ)
2191	seaweed	TẢO	藻	seaweed, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3	19	56			Let wooden goods = furniture. Then: Walking along the sea shore you see some washed-up furniture with water (waves) splashing against it. From a distance it looks like flowers are growing out the top, but as you get closer you see it is in fact seaweed.	Take seaweed (water + flower) and hang it to dry in a tree to produce nori goods.	JH	1	ソウ	も	藻 (も)
2192	slave	LỆ	隷	slave, samurai, altar, show, two, small, sieve, rake, grains of rice	16	56			The samurai sits on the altar and watches the slave rake rice all day.	The samurai from 款 (#1178) maintains his good mood on his wedding day. He tells his slave that he can keep all rice (used for confetti) that he rakes up after the ceremony. Generous Man!!	JH	1	レイ	したが.う、しもべ	
2193	healing	DŨ	癒	healing, sickness, hospital, in the nick of time, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, heart	18	56			At the butcher's meeting, all the butcher's who have a heart disease attend the faith healing workshop.	Note: meeting of butchers + heart are later combined into 愈 in the nick of time (#2433). Story: For healing to take place, you must catch the sickness in the nick of time.	JH	1	ユ	い.える、いや.す	
2196	cinnabar	ĐAN	丹	rust colored, cinnabar, ship´s funnel	4	56			How about a rusty cinnabar colored dilapidated boat, found abandoned somewhere. The smoke-stack and the keel have fallen off...	Rusty old boat with the bottom and top missing.	JH	1	タン	に	
2195	lagoon	TÍCH	潟	lagoon, water, water droplets, water pistol, mortar, tail feathers	15	56			Right part: mortar bound up over oven fire, comprising boiling cauldron. Lagoon is a shallow pond, thus easily warmed by sun, large-scale equivalent of a boiling cauldron.	I stapled both sides of some tail feathers to a waterfall towering over the lagoon to give it a more tropical feel…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading.	JH	1	セキ	かた、-がた	潟 (かた)
2197	sign of the cow	SỬU	丑	sign of the cow, dagger, two	5	56			77 Cows behind a fence.	77 Cows behind a fence.	Names	1	チュウ	うし	
2199	sign of the hare	MÃO	卯	sign of the hare, blown eggs	5	56			Rabbit ears.	You know how missing childrens´ pictures often appear on milk cartons? Well here we have a missing hare. His concerned family is having his picture printed on the backs of receipts and even on stamps. So far, however, there has been no SIGN OF THE HARE.	Names	1	ボウ、モウ	う	
2200	sign of the snake	TỊ	巳	sign of the snake, mosaic with bit missing	3	56			The 巳nd! Thanks all.	The snake likes stealing pieces from mosaics, so if you notice your mosaic has a piece missing, that’s a sign of the snake.	Names	1	シ	み	
1606	crystal	Ly	璃	crystal, king, jewel, ball, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow	14	39	This kanji refers to one of the seven classical stones of China. Its elements: jewel . . . top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow.		The King's crystal got detached from his royal throne, and is missing! Looks like the turkey got away with it. He's no where to be seen!	In my story for detatch detach (#1492), the left side primitive was junkie. The top-hatted villian of society with a belt around their elbow. Here, the junkie is getting a fix of crystal meth: the jewel in the crown of today´s drugs.	JH	1	リ		
1091	myself	Yêm (tôi, tao đây)	俺	myself, person, dachshund, large, St. Bernard, eel, sun, day	10	27	The key word refers to a very familiar way of referring to oneself, typically used by men. Its component elements: person . . . St. Bernard . . . eel.		Myself as used by men – a person who prides himself on how big his “eel” is.	"As astridtops mentions, this is ""Ore"". In Japanese r = l, so could write it ""Ole"". So picture a bullfight with person as the matador and a dachshund replacing the bull. The crowd keep shouting ""Ole! (Ore)""."	JH		エン	おれ、われ	俺 (おれ)
1531	mortar	Cữu	臼	mortar, back to back staples	6	37	The image here is of back-to-back staples. The mortar referred to in this key word is a stone or wooden basin used for grinding with a pestle.		I removed all the back to back staples and grinded them in a mortar to create metal dust.	The mortar bomb exploded, ripping the sun in half.	JH		キュウ、グ	うす、うすづ.く	臼 (うす)
1532	break	Huỷ	毀	break, mortar, soil, dirt, ground, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	13	37	Mortar . . . soil . . . missile.		Wow, that baker must really be mad! He's trying to BREAK his MORTAR by throwing it to the SOIL. Whoa! Now he's aiming a MISSILE at it!	Place your mortar on solid ground before firing missiles from it, otherwise it will break.	JH		キ	こぼ.つ、こわ.す、こぼ.れる、こわ.れる、そし.る、やぶ.る	
268	spinal column (Xương sống, có 24 đốt.)	TÍCH (technical your spine)	脊	spinal column, I Ching, Master Po, umbrella, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	10	12	"The spinal column has sprouted out of the flesh of your back into an umbrella that you always have with you, rain or shine. The pair of 2s on each side are the ""ribs"" of the umbrella. Take care to keep your image of the key word distinct from that for spine (Frame 24)."		"Look, says the teacher in biology class. ""The spinal column holds your flesh together, just like the metal rod of this umbrella (he demonstrates this with an umbrella covered in I-Ching symbols) holds the umbrella together""."	A pictograph of a spinal column. The umbrella representing the shoulder blades, the I Ching as the shoulder muscles and the part of the body as the spine itself.	JH		セキ	せ、せい	
2194	imperial seal	TỈ	璽	imperial seal, let it be, noren, one, ceiling, eight, towel, stitching, patchwork quilt, jewel, earring	19	56			If you find a jewel with the imperial seal on it, just let it be. You wouldn't want to be accused of stealing the royal family jewels.	Primitives (to give correct stroke order): tool bench, towel, 4 Xs, jewel. Story: the Imperial Seal is like a kind of coat-of-arms the Emperor can stamp on stuff. Picture that coat-of-arms as depicting a big jewel (say, a diamond) with a motto on a banner above it saying 'let it be (#2074)'. (The emperor must have been a huge Beatles fan).	JH		ジ		
458	bewitched	YÊU	妖	bewitched, woman, sapling	7	18	You are bewitched by a woman who is, of course, a witch.		A girl bewitched you and you start to see her as angel	I was bewitched by the woman fairy (like an angel, but not as tall).	JH		ヨウ	あや.しい、なま.めく、わざわ.い	妖しい (あや.しい)
459	irrigate	ỐC (bón tưới, mềm mại, đất đai màu mỡ)	沃	irrigate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sapling	7	18	Suffering from a drought, the farmers call on a witch who conjures up water to irrigate their crops.		You use water to irrigate your saplings.	A fairy needs a lot of water to irrigate those beating wings, so you have make sure they drink a lot to be well irrigated (see bewitched (#2078).	JH		ヨウ、ヨク、オク	そそ.ぐ	
983	training	Kế (cãi cọ, lưu lại, suy xét)	稽	training, wheat, cereal, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day	15	26	Wheat . . . chihuahua with one human leg . . . delicious.		After a hard day of training, wheat is understandably delicious.	After training hard and eating Wheaties for months, you are understandably thrilled to sink your spoon into a delicious hot fudge sundae.	JH		ケイ	かんが.える、とど.める	
791	grab	Thải (hái ngắt, lựa chọn)	采	grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood	8	23	Vulture . . . tree.		You ever wondered why this appeared as a primitive in so many RTK1 kanji? Well, you should know that once a vulture grabs hold of a tree, he can never let go. Even Heisig couldn´t shake him loose.	A common meaning for this kanji is ´DICE´. --- Ever wonder what vultures do up in the trees? They play DICE. But of course, being vultures, they are always grabbing the dice away from each other.	JH	1	サイ	と.る、いろどり	
1215	chop off	Trảm	斬	chop off, executioner, car, axe	11	31	Car . . . ax.		"A ""chop shop"" is a place where stolen cars are taken, and parts chopped off with an axe, to be sold."	I wanted a convertible so I chopped off the top of my car with an axe.	JH		ザン、サン、セン、ゼン	き.る	斬る (き.る)
432	towel	CÂN (Cái khăn)	巾	towel	3	18	This character depicts a bolt of cloth wrapped around a pole. From there it gets its meaning of a towel.		If it looks like a towel, speaks like a towel and walks like a towel... I wonder why Heisig didn´t include this one (as an actual kanji) in RtK 1.	Primative from RTK1.	JH		キン、フク	おお.い、ちきり、きれ、はば	
1699	trifle	Cấn	僅	trifle, person, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up	12	40	Person . . . cabbage.		"To a big guy like Mr. T, eating a whole cabbage at once is nothing. ""What? a cabbage? That's just a trifle, foo, where's the meat?""."	To MR.T swallowing a whole CABBAGE is no more than a TRIFLE.	JH		キン、ゴン	わずか	僅 (わずか)
1025	partner	Lữ (bạn, người đi theo)	侶	partner, person, spine, mouth, drop, mouth, mouth2	9	27	Person . . . spine.		As a PARTNER, I want a PERSON with a strong SPINE.	"Mr. T don´t take a partner, especially one with no spine. ""I pity da foo got no spine"", he says."	JH		リョ、ロ	とも	
1040	performing artist	Kỹ (hành vi, tài năng, kỹ nghệ)	伎	performing artist, person, branch, ten, needle, crotch	6	27	Person . . . branch.		Mr T is dancing and singing and all that, but he´s doing it on a branch. All that talent and can still still keep his balance? That´s a real performing artist.	(note: this is the ´ki´ from kabuki).//The performing artist is a person doing Kabuki theater and dancing around with a branch in his hand.	JH	1	ギ、キ	わざ、わざおぎ	
2036	nifty	Thê	凄	nifty, ice, wife, ten, needle, rake, woman	10	51	Ice . . . wife.		His wife has a nifty way of making all types of ice cream in her home freezer.	Sugoi! Sugoi! Ice Wife Sugoi!	JH		セイ、サイ	さむ.い、すご.い、すさ.まじい	
808	metallurgy	Dã (nấu chảy kim loại)	冶	metallurgy, ice, pedestal, elbow, mouth	7	23	Ice . . . pedestal.		The secrets of metallurgy and smithing: get your redhot metal and bang it against the pedestal as an anvil. Then cool it quickly with lots of ice.	An ICE PEDESTAL is useless in METALLURGY since it will just melt.	JH	1	ヤ	い.る	
1601	moment	Sát (trong chốc lát)	刹	moment, sheaf, tree, wood, sword, sabre, saber	8	39	"The key word here is the noun meaning ""a breif moment."" Its elements: sheaf . . . tree . . . saber."		Wolverine waiting atop a tree to spring down on Sabretooth at any moment.	Wtf moment? This kanji means temple. Wooden x-men statues with sabres guard the entrance to the Professor Xavier temple. Might help if you imagine the two x-men as Wolverine and Sabretooth.	JH		セチ、セツ、サツ		
1227	peel off	Bác (bỏ)	剥・剝	peel off, dustpan, broom, grains of rice, sword, sabre, saber	10	31	Broom . . . rice grains . . . saber.		Peel off the outside of the broom that sweeps up rice grains to reveal a saber.	A multi-purpose broom! It cleans, it sweeps (rice!), it hits! In fact, peel off the mahogany exterior to uncover a sabre! It slices, it dices, it kills!	JH		ハク、ホク	へ.ぐ、へず.る、む.く、む.ける、は.がれる、は.ぐ、は.げる、は.がす	剥がす (は.がす), 剥ぐ (は.ぐ)
478	aroma	MÙI	匂	aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	4	18	"You will have to imagine ""capturing"" a favorite aroma by having it gagged and bound up in a spoon."		The muchacho sits down bound up to enjoy his own aroma.	If you bind up a person and let him sit for several days, an unpleasant aroma will result.	JH			にお.う、にお.い、にお.わせる	匂う (にお.う)
800	hooked	Câu (nghiêng, bị cong)	勾	flexed, bound up, elbow	4	23	Bound up . . . elbow. Think of this key word in the sense of something that has been nabbed or cought.		Your elbow is bound up so that your biceps will stay flexed.	My elbow was bound up in a cast, making it impossible to keep it flexed.	JH		コウ、ク	かぎ、ま.がる	
54	derision	Trào (chế diễu;chế giễu; nhạo báng; phỉ báng; giễu cợt)	嘲	derision, mouth, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2	15	3	The bad feeling created by words spoken in derision often leaves a bad taste in the mouth of the one who speaks them, kind of like the foul aftertaste that follows a night before of too much of the wrong stuff - or what we call morning mouth.		When I wake up, I am always late, so I hurry to work. With a bad case of perpetual morning breath, I am the subject of derision at my office whenever I open my mouth.	If morning breath emanates from your mouth, you are subject to derision!	JH		チョウ、トウ	あざけ.る	嘲る (あざけ.る)
628	windpipe	Yến, Yết (nghẹn ngào)	咽	windpipe, mouth, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard	9	22	Mouth . . . cause.		"You can´t breathe very well, so the doc looks inside your mouth to find the cause. ""Oh, I see the cause of your windpipe blockage. There´s a St Bernard penned up in there!""."	Imagine a group of windpipes chatting: “That mouth is the cause of all my problems, you know, always breathing in germs, etc.”.	JH		イン、エン、エツ	むせ.ぶ、むせ.る、のど、の.む	
1768	throat	Hầu	喉	throat, mouth, marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens	12	42	Mouth . . . marquis.		"""If the marquis opens his mouth one more time, I'll cut his throat"", his rival the baron said."	The Marquis de Sade was kinda gay. He used to mouth down a lot of deep-throat action.	JH		コウ	のど	喉 (のど)
1706	saliva	Thoá	唾	saliva, mouth, droop, drop, silage, one, floor	11	40	Mouth . . . droop.		When some people are sleeping, their mouths droop open, and saliva drips out.	Saliva drools from a mouth that droops. つば.	JH		ダ、タ	つば、つばき	唾 (つば)
108	curse	CHÚ (Thần chú.)	呪	curse, mouth, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, mouth2	8	6	For some reason, the inventor of this kanji associated a curse with the mouth of an older brother. I leave it to you to decide if he is on the giving or receiving end of the sorcery.		Caution: this means a spell, not to swear. I put a curse on my elder brother so that he can never open his mouth.	Your older brother´s mouth often curses.	JH		ジュ、シュ、シュウ、ズ	まじな.う、のろ.い、まじな.い、のろ.う	呪う (のろ.う)
57	pop song	Bội	唄	pop song, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	10	4	"There is a lot of money to be made of one's songs are ""popular."" This is depicted here as a stream of clams spewing out of the mouth of someone performing a pop song."		The new generation of pop songs have no depth. They just mouth empty lyrics to get money. Not like the pop songs of my day.	A new way for sluts to use their mouths to make alot of money.	JH	1	バイ	うた、うた.う	唄 (うた)
477	scold	SẤT	叱	scold, mouth, diced, seven, spoon, sitting on the ground	5	18	Recall some particularly harsh scolding you got as a child in school. This character has you sitting on the ground in the corner as your teacher stands over you, her mouth wide open as she reprimands you in front of the entire class.		A kid gets scolded if they don´t put the spoon properly into their mouth when eating.	If I got scolded, I could expect a spoon of castor oil in my mouth.	JH		シツ、シチ	しか.る	叱る (しか.る)
596	piled high	Đôi (chất đống)	堆	piled high, soil, dirt, ground, turkey	11	21	Soil . . . turkey.		After our pre-Thanksgiving massacre, we piled high all the turkey corpses atop the soil of the farmyard.	During the Turkey Holocaust (this is what the animal kingdom calls Thanksgiving - they have really short memories and thus don´t recall that it actually happens every single year), turkeys are killed en masse, and their bodies are piled high. To keep them from tumbling down, a pile of dirt is piled high right next to them to keep them standing upright so that they will be fresh when it is time to eat them.	JH		タイ、ツイ	うずたか.い	
166	inlay	ĐIỀN (Lấp cho đầy hố)	填・塡	stuff up, soil, dirt, ground, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight	13	8	When we hear the world inlay, we usually think of setting precious stones in pieces of jewelery, but the primitive elements here suggest truth being inlaid in the soil. You might think instead of the cosmic wisdom that inlaid the truth of the universe in the stuff of the earth.		In a hole in the ground, the body of the victim was placed. And then the killer stuffed it up so that the truth would not be found out, he hoped.	I stuffed up his mouth with dirt to keep the truth from coming out.	JH		テン、チン	は.まる、は.める、うず.める、しず.める、ふさ.ぐ	
123	jealous	ĐỐ (đố kị)	妬	jealous, woman, stone, rock	8	7	It should not be hard to leep from the key word to the image of a woman who is jealous of the rock that another woman is sporting on the third finger of her left hand.		The jealous woman bashed the brains in of the guy who betrayed her, with a stone.	Every woman wants a huge stone on her finger to make her friends jealous.	JH		ト、ツ	ねた.む、そね.む、つも.る、ふさ.ぐ	妬む (ねた.む)
1820	envy	Tật	嫉	envy, woman, rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens	13	44	Woman . . . rapidly.		If you go through women rapidly you will be the object of envy.	Ah, puberty ... the girl that starts her journey towards womanhood the most rapidly will become the subject of envy from all her classmates.	JH		シツ	そね.む、ねた.む、にく.む	
1646	block up	Tắc, tái	塞	block up, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, soil, dirt, ground	13	39	House . . . celery . . . animal legs . . . soil.		The A/C wasn´t making the house cold because the filters had been blocked up with dirt.	It was so cold (#1526), the pipes blocked up with ice. After removing the ice, we insulated them with soil.	JH		ソク、サイ	ふさ.ぐ、とりで、み.ちる	塞がる (ふさ.がる), 塞ぐ (ふさ.ぐ)
1134	buttocks	Khào (mông)	尻	buttocks, flag, nine, baseball	5	29	Flag . . . baseball team.		I wonder if this story will be flagged for saying i give her buttocks a score of 9.	The baseball team stick flags in their buttocks and wave them at the opposing team to put them off.	JH		コウ	しり	尻 (しり)
841	bluffs	Nhai (vách đá dốc đứng, ven núi)	崖	bluffs, mountain, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2	11	24	Mountain . . . cliff . . . ivy.		"Standing at the base of the bluffs I announce, ""I´m going to climb those ivy-covered cliffs, and then the mountain on top of them."" My friends don´t believe me, ""He bluffs!"" they say."	The ivy-covered cliff we saw on the horizon (#157) ... the sheer beauty of the mountain that overlooks these bluffs is enough to make you want to swim for shore yourself!	JH		ガイ、ゲ、ギ	がけ、きし、はて	崖 (がけ)
1322	more and more	Di	弥	more and more, bow, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little	8	33	Bow . . . reclining . . . little.		The bow dug more and more into the small of his back as he reclined on it. Will someone please tell the idiot to get up?	If I recline back, I can pull my bow open a little more and more.	JH	1	ミ、ビ	いや、や、あまねし、いよいよ、とおい、ひさし、ひさ.しい、わた.る	弥 (や)
1310	shove	Ai	挨	shove, finger, fingers, elbow, dart, drop, heavens	10	33	Fingers . . . elbow . . . dart.		In the busy pub, one of the dart players shoved his dart into my elbow by accident when it nearly slipped out of his fingers.	Your fingers slip when someone´s elbow shoves you, causing you to drop the dart you were about to throw. But as you can see, their elbow is very small, so you decide they´re too weak to shove back.	JH		アイ	ひら.く	
1716	wrench	Niệm	捻	wrenching, finger, fingers, wish, wishbone, now, clock, heart	11	41	This kanji does not refer to the tool but to the act of twisting. Its elements: fingers . . . wish.		Ever try WRENCHING a bolt with just your FINGERS? Trust me, you´ll WISH you had a wrench for WRENCHING to save your FINGERS.	I have an unfortunate habit of wrenching off other people’s fingers when I pull a wishbone with them.	JH		ネン、ジョウ	ね.じる、ねじ.る、ひね.くる、ひね.る	
695	wipe	Thức (lau)	拭	wipe, finger, fingers, style, arrow, craft	9	23	Fingers . . . style.		Why carry a handkerchief? I wipe my nose finger-style.	If you are going to wipe your nose with your fingers, better do it in a grand style.	JH		ショク、シキ	ぬぐ.う、ふ.く	拭う (ぬぐ.う), 拭く (ふ.く)
1374	nab	Túc (bắt, nắm chặt)	捉	nab, finger, fingers, leg, mouth, mend	10	34	Fingers . . . leg.		I felt a finger on my leg as someone tried to nab my wallet.	Fingers nabs Davy Jone´s wooden leg: Argh! Bring me back me leg, ya scurvy dog!	JH		ソク、サク	とら.える	捉える (とら.える)
713	imminent	Tạt (sắp xảy ra)	拶	imminent, finger, fingers, stream, flood, evening	9	23	Fingers . . . flood . . . evening.		The old lady said that there was a flood imminent, because her fingers hurt in the evening.	The Dutch boy put his finger in the dam holding back imminent danger from flood waters until evening.	JH		サツ	せま.る	
728	make headway	Bộ (tiến triển)	捗	make headway, finger, fingers, walk, stop, footprint, few	11	23	Let your fingers do the walking as you make headway through the Yellow Pages in search of something hard to find.		Come on people, the only way to make headway in this business is to let your fingers do the walking! bust out the yellow pages and dial as many numbers as possible, surely someone is a sucker for a cold call sell.	Thing from the Addams Family has difficulties in making headway because, well, he has no head. Only walking fingers.	JH		チョク、ホ	はかど.る	
681	yearn	Sung (khao khát)	憧	yearn, Freud, state of mind, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer	15	22	Think of the state of mind you were in as a child with a particularly juvenile yearning.		A paedophile´s state of mind is to yearn for juveniles.	A juvenile´s state of mind tends to go apeshit when they see something they yearn for. Usually involving jumping up and down, tantrums, and other bullshit. (Imagine giving them a big backhand across the face.).	JH	1	ショウ、トウ、ドウ	あこが.れる	憧れる (あこが.れる)
1510	bubble up	Dũng (Nước vọt ra, tung ra)	湧	bubble up, water, water droplets, water pistol, courageous, courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold	12	37	Water . . . courage.		The courageous man who went into the water to save a drowning victim couldn´t be seen, except by the air that bubbled up.	Bubble up the WATER and see who has the COURAGE to jump into it.	JH	1	ユウ、ヨウ、ユ	わ.く	湧く (わ.く)
151	grains of sand	Sa	沙	grains of sand, water, water droplets, water pistol, few			"We have already learned the kanji for sand (Frame 122), so let's use it to remember the character for grains of sand. Instead of the ""few stones"" that make for nice sand, here we have a few drops of water, one for each grand of sand - a beach in perfect ecological balance."		Wet sand is simply sand but to see beautiful grains of sand, the water must be few.	Near the water is one of the few places you will find grains of sand.	JH	1	サ、シャ	すな、よなげる	
788	lewd	Dâm	淫	lewd, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, porter, drop, samurai	11	23	Water . . . vulture . . . porter.		The vulture is on top of the porter and appears to be commiting a lewd act, so I throw water over the pair of them.	Claw marks across the porters back from engaging in lewd acts in the shower. He is tipped well for carrying the lady´s bags to her room.	JH		イン	ひた.す、ほしいまま、みだ.ら、みだ.れる、みだり	淫ら (みだ.ら)
1518	widespread	Phiếm	氾	widespread, water, water droplets, water pistol, fingerprint	5	37	Water . . . fingerprint.		It´s a widespread belief that they cannot find fingerprints on a body that has been deposited in the water.	It´s a widespread belief that water takes away fingerprints.	JH		ハン	ひろ.がる	
1324	drowning	Nịch	溺	drowning, water, water droplets, water pistol, weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2	13	33	"Water . . . weak. Do not confuse the meaning of this key word with ""Drown"" (Frame 763), which is closer to ""founder."""		Weak people placed in the water start drowning. Get some strength in those arms and learn how to swim!	Weak swimmers drowning in the water.	JH		デキ、ジョウ、ニョウ	いばり、おぼ.れる	溺れる (おぼ.れる)
149	cleanse	Thải	汰	cleanse, water, water droplets, water pistol, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop			This character can mean both to cleanse and to make dirty. We will choose the latter and imagine someone who is displeasingly plump going to a skinny spa whose medicinal waters promise to cleanse him of his unwanted corpulence. Picture him sitting in the spa as the pounds melt away, leaving a greasy scum on top of the water.		"I couldn´t find any reference to this kanji as meaning cleanse. It seems to be most often used in the following compound 沙汰（さた）to mean affair. The other meanings seem to be closer to ´select´ so maybe Heisig meant cleanse in the ethnic sense here.. I´m going to use the keyword ""selection"", as in natural selection. Story: natural selection first began in the water, and those that were too plump were selected out."	Water is used to cleanse a plump man´s colon.	JH	1	タ、タイ	おご.る、にご.る、よな.げる	
1911	defile	Hội	潰	defile, water, water droplets, water pistol, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	15	46	Water . . . precious.		"...Faramir and Frodo watched the tiny creature far below. ""Shall we shoot him?"" Faramir asked. ""This Gollum has defiled the waters of the Forbidden pond, looking for his Precious, and for that the penalty is death""..."	Man continues to defile precious water and it may prove to be his downfall (Think of Exxon, BP, etc.).	JH		カイ、エ	つぶ.す、つぶ.れる、つい.える	
147	pan-	PHIẾM (Trôi nổi trên mặt nước, rộng rãi, tràn khắp)	汎	pan-, water, water droplets, water pistol, mediocre, wind, drop	6	8	"The sense of the key word here is the ""all-inclusive"" we find in terms like ""Pan-American Games."" (It is also the character used in mathematics for ""partial"" as in partial differentials, in case you are a math major and want to take your story in that direction.) Instead of a water sports event that brings together the best talent, think of a meet of the region's most mediocre athletes, many of whom cannot even tread water. Now try to find a sponsor for the ""Pan-Mediocre Water Sports Competition."""		Yeah, all our water is fairly mediocre, but if we work together in some pan-continental union, we can make some better water! As if.	"This is pan- as in the prefix meaning ""all"". I think of Pangea as being a mediocre continent with water covering the rest of the planet. This was before it broke up into the first-class, well-distributed continents we got now."	JH		ハン、ブ、フウ、ホウ、ホン	ただよ.う、ひろ.い	
1367	cauldron	Phủ	釜	cauldron, father, metal, gold	10	34	Father . . . metal. Note the stroke overlap between father and metal.		Your father uses his legs to stop himself from being put in a metal cauldron.	Whilst on holiday, my father was captured by cannibals and put in a metal cauldron.	JH		フ	かま	釜 (かま)
1917	aim at	Thư	狙	aim at, pack of wild dogs, shelf, my bookshelves	8	47	Pack of wild dogs . . . shelf.		When her home was invaded by a pack of dogs, the little girl climbed on the shelf and aimed various items at the dogs below.	I think the dogs purposely aim at your shelves to deal the most damage.	JH		ソ、ショ	ねら.う、ねら.い	狙う (ねら.う)
986	numb	Uỳ (héo tàn, ủ rũ)	萎	numb, flowers, committee, wheat, cereal, woman	11	26	Flowers . . . committee.		Oh, the committee´s in for a surprise: I put some nightshades into their drinks. They´ll be numb for sure, probably worse.	"The keyword numb makes no sense. I choose 萎む（しぼむ）""to fade away"". A girl lies in a wheat field at the same time every day. A photo is taken every day showing this scene and a time lapse video shows the wheat growing through the year until the wheat is tall and the top sprouts to look like its flowers. At this point, the girl can no longer be seen in the photos and she fades away."	JH		イ	な、しお.れる、しな.びる、しぼ.む、な.える	萎える (な.える)
1119	cover over	Tế (vỏ bọc, che chở, che giấu)	蔽	cover over, flowers, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster	15	28	Flower . . . shredder.		You cover over the shredder with flowers when the FBI comes a-knockin´.	The taskmaster arranges flowers to cover over the rags she makes us clean with.	JH		ヘイ、ヘツ、フツ	おお.う、おお.い	
647	wick	Tâm (bấc đèn)	芯	wick, flowers, heart	7	22	Flowers . . . heart.		Giving a girl flowers is like lighting the wick to her heart.	My favorite are heart shaped candles that smell like sweet flowers. The trick is to find one with a thick wick, they give off the most flower scent (but burn the quickest).	JH		シン		
1565	indigo	Lam (cây chàm, sắc xanh lam)	藍	indigo, flowers, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish	18	38	Flowers . . . oversee.		Indigo flowers have to be overseen because they are often picked for their beauty.	"Traditionally, 青 blue (#1534) could be used to describe blue OR green. However, two kanji that describe the hues specifically are 藍 and 緑. This kanji is the ""blue"" counterpart of green (#1371). Story: The overseer, master of the slaves, wore a cloak dyed with indigo, and flowers in his hair."	JH	1	ラン	あい	藍 (あい)
240	bullying	Hà (nghiệt ác)	苛	bullying, flowers, can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike	8	10	A nosegay of flowers make a nice gift, but if those flowers are poison oak, they can amount to bullying. Be sure to emphasize the word can when you repeat this little phrase to yourself.		How many flowers can I stuff in your nostrils? Well I´m just gonna have to go and see. Bullying at its worst!	Flowers, you ask if they can feel pain, do you? ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ They sure -can-!! ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^!!	JH		カ	いじ.める、さいな.む、いらだ.つ、からい、こまかい	
1561	lid	Cái	蓋	lid, flowers, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, dish	13	38	Flowers . . . gone . . . dish.		The lid of this dish is gone! Now the whole room smells of the flowers that were used in the cooking.	When the magician lifted the LID, the flowers were gone from the dish.	JH		ガイ、カイ、コウ	ふた、けだ.し、おお.う、かさ、かこう	蓋 (ふた)
392	revile	Miệt	蔑	revile, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, march	14	17	The verbal abuse involved in reviling those who do not deserve it can be compared to a march of flowers in full boom having an eyeball of nastiness cast over them (literally, of course).		They gays were reviled by society, so they put flowers above their eyes and marched around.	In Northern Ireland, bitter religious groups revile their opponents by marching defiantly under their very eye, holding flowers that symbolize their beliefs.	JH		ベツ	ないがしろ、なみ.する、くらい、さげす.む	蔑む (さげす.む)
492	kudzu	CÁT (cây sắn, củ sắn)	葛	kudzu, flowers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground	11	18	"Kudzu is a word taken over from Japanese to name the crawling vines that creep up and completely take over trees. Seeing it at its worst in the Georgia countryside makes it easy to understand why it has a reputation as the ""plague of the South."" From there it should not be hard to arrange the primitives, flowers and siesta into a memorable image."		Flower, siesta: The muchacho was not careful. He passed the warning signs and decided to hold a siesta in the kudzu field. The kudzu grew so fast, he was completely covered by it in a few hours and not able to escape. Now, the kudzu flowers mark his grave.	The muchacho takes a siesta under the flowers of the kudzu.	JH		カツ、カチ	つづら、くず	葛 (くず)
1496	modest	Tốn (Trong từ khiêm tốn)	遜	modest, grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman, road	13	36	Grandchild . . . road.		My parents aren´t at all modest about their grandchildren, at every opportunity they take them on the road showing them off to their friends!	"He wasn´t at all modest when telling us about his grandchildren - ""They´re all on the road to success"" he said."	JH		ソン	したが.う、へりくだ.る、ゆず.る	
1394	chink	Khích	隙	chink, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, small, little, sun, day, small2, little, 2	13	35	Pinnacle . . . little . . . sun . . . little. Note that the form of the first element for little given here is the simpler form that has become standard in general-use characters (See Frame 110). For the time being, until typesetting fonts have made the adjustment, the official approved drawing has the drops similar to the bottom little.		There was only one chink in his plan. Even standing atop the highest pinnacle, standing above even the sun, the little man was still just as little as when he was under the sun.	Man those little chinks can do anything! They were the first to build rockets, and by launching one off the top of the highest pinnacle in China, one little chink was the first to ride above the sun, and see all the little chinks below!	JH		ゲキ、キャク、ケキ	すき、す.く、す.かす、ひま	隙 (すき)
797	unclear	Ái (tối)	曖	equivocal, sun, love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs	17	23	Sun . . . love.		The sun´s love is equivocal: it warms yet burns us.	"曖昧。 On a sunny day, a guy professes his love to a girl he admires. But she gives him the common equivocal response, ""Let´s just be friends.""."	JH		アイ	くら.い	
231	obscure	Muội (mờ mờ)	昧	obscure, sun, not yet, one, tree, wood	9	10	The most obscure ideas are those that the sun of reason has not yet dawned on. Be sure to give the sun a professorial demeanor, complete with spectacles and a pipe.		Something that is obscure has not yet been brought before the light of day.	´Can´t you go outside and get some sun?´ ´Not yet, I have to learn all these obscure RTK3 kanji!´.	JH		マイ、バイ	くら.い、むさぼ.る	
278	effulgent (literary: beautiful and bright)	VƯỢNG (Sáng sủa, tốt đẹp)	旺	effulgent, sun, day, king, jewel, ball	8	12	The radiant, effulgent splendor of he sun makes it king of all the planets and other stars. Just to be sure you don't take this too abstractly, picture the sun seated on a throne, flourishing its scepter this way and that.		The Sun King (Louis XIV) was known for his effulgent reign.	"[+katsuo] This is the Sun King. Sayeth Wikipedia: ""The Sun King (in French le Roi Soleil) because of the idea that, just as the planets revolve around the Sun, so too should France and the court revolve around [the king] (""http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XIV_of_France). And just like the sun, he was quite effulgent and actually emitted sunlight."	JH	1	オウ、キョウ、ゴウ	かがや.き、うつくし.い、さかん	
916	kidney	Thận	腎	kidney, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, moon, month, flesh, part of the body	13	25	Slave . . . crotch . . . flesh.		If you have a weak KIDNEY, you'll become a SLAVE to your CROTCH's need to pee. Oh well, it's just a weakness of the FLESH.	When the sex slave misbehaves, threaten to sell his body parts starting with his kidney.	JH		ジン		
764	thigh	Cổ (bắp đùi)	股	thigh, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch	8	23	Flesh . . . missile.		Where´s my flesh missile? Between my thighs, naturally...	My thigh is the part of the body that my missile smacks against.	JH		コ	また、もも	股 (また)
655	cowardice	Ức (sợ hãi, nhút nhát)	臆	cowardice, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart	17	22	Flesh . . . idea.		Cowardice is the situation where you get the thought that maybe running away and saving your flesh is a good idea.	Cowardice is when you are not willing to sacrifice your flesh for your ideas.	JH		オク、ヨク	むね、おくする	
1002	knee	Tất (đầu gối)	膝	knee, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice	13	26	Flesh . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . rice grains.		Before lacquer (#932) was made with water, it was made by draining this body part of fluid: the knee!	Back in ancient Japan, people didn´t have knee pads for things like rollerblading and such (what, come on. Ninjas on rollerblades. Ultimate 90s flashback). Instead, they would simply dip their knees in laquer, and wait until it dried (hence the flesh, and the abscence of any drops of water). Unfortunately, this meant that you would have to wait about 30 minutes after deciding to go rollerblade until you could actually do it (took some time to dry) - and removing it was a serious pain.	JH		シツ	ひざ	膝 (ひざ)
46	elbow	Trửu (cùi chỏ, khuỷu tay)	肘	elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, glue	7	3	"Instead of the familiar ""grease"" we usually associate with the elbow of someone hard at work, the kanji gives us a part of the body that has been glued to its task."		Sometimes I get carried away and do elbow curls until the point where my forearm snaps off! When that happens I simply pull out the glue and re-attach the elbow to my flesh.	Picture two Siamese twins glued together at the elbow.	JH		チュウ	ひじ	肘 (ひじ)
141	gland	TUYẾN (Trong thể xác các động vật chỗ nào bật chất nước ra gọi là tuyến)	腺	gland, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spring, white, dove, water	13	8	Dig into your flesh and pull out a lymph gland. Now give it a squeeze and watch the spring of lymph spout out of it.		A body part that acts like a spring for hormones is a gland.	When adrenaline glands release hormones, the body springs into action.	JH		セン		
1807	tumor	Thũng	腫	tumour, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, heavy, thousand, ri, computer	13	43	Flesh . . . heavy.		A tumor is a useless body part that is nothing but heavy.	When flesh clumps together and gets heavy, it forms a tumor.	JH		シュ、ショウ	は.れる、は.れ、は.らす、く.む、はれもの	腫らす (は.らす), 腫れる (は.れる)
1113	dining tray	Thiện (cái khay)	膳	dining tray, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth	16	28	Flesh . . . virtuous.		Some people insist that the serving maids who bring in the dining trays are especially virtuous and never let any man touch their flesh.	The virtuous vegan will not touch this dining tray because it has had a piece of meat on it.	JH		ゼン、セン	かしわ、すす.める、そな.える	
2034	pillow	Chẩm	枕	pillow, tree, wood, garter, crown, human legs	8	51	Tree . . . crown tied around leg of person.		"The guy who was thrown into the river to sink was given one last request. ""If I´m gonna be sleeping with the fishes,"" he said, ""can I at least have a pillow? I´m real sensitive."" The mafia bosses laughed. ""Look, my doctor said I can only use wooden pillows, I have a real serious condition. Can I at least die comfortable-like?"" The mafia dudes said fine, and let him have his pillow. They tossed him the river and drove off...and after a minute, he bobbed to the top, thanks to his floating wood pillow."	WOODEN PILLOWS do not sink (#1888) in water.	JH		チン、シン	まくら	枕 (まくら)
218	CHAIR	Y (Một âm là ỷ. Cái ghế dựa)	椅	chair, tree, wood, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth	12	10	Instead of making a chair out of wood from a tree, this kanji has us making the whole tree into a chair, which looks most strange sitting in your living room where the sofa used to be.		To the Japanese, the first time they saw a chair, it looked like a strange use of wood! Probably why they still like to sit on the floor...	A strange kind of tree grows in the shape of a chair.	JH		イ		
441	persimmon	Thị	柿	persimmon, tree, wood, market, top hat, towel	9	18	Imagine a village market with stalls set up around an immense persimmon tree with watermelon-sized fruit. If it weren't for the fact that the tree is sacred to the village, people would get impatient as the persimmons fall from the tree and wreak havoc on buyers and sellers alike.		Nobody buys persimmons at the market, because there´s a tree in the middle where you can pick them for free.	The guy at the market says: I´ll give you one persimmon tree per every Simon you bring me!	JH		シ	かき、こけら	柿 (かき)
956	girder	Hành (cái cầu nổi)	桁	girder, tree, wood, going	10	25	Tree . . . going.		Girders are support beams that are nowadays mostly made out of steel. But in the ancient houses that are placed at the boulevard the girders will be made out of wood.	"When the wooden girders start to snap, the workmen shout ""Run! Let´s go!""."	JH		コウ	けた	桁 (けた)
751	spiny	Ngạnh (gai cứng)	梗	spiny, tree, wood, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm	11	23	This character refers originally to a deciduous, rough tree that grows on mountain plains. From this it gets the secondary sense of rugged or spiny. Its primitive elements: tree . . . grow late.		I learned this one from the movie Evil Dead, but when it grows late, trees change shape and become spiny creatures! Lesson: don´t go out at night.	With the safety of darkness as it grows late, spiny little insects start crawling out of the trees.	JH		コウ、キョウ	ふさぐ、やまにれ、おおむね	
597	sweet oak	Truy (cây sồi)	椎	sweet oak, tree, wood, turkey	12	21	Tree . . . turkey.		Why is the sweet oak so sweet? Not sure, but to me it tastes just like turkey (with gravy and cranberry sauce!) Now that is sweet.	Sweeter than Shiit~ake? Turkeys gobble Shiitake mushrooms椎茸 off the sweet oak tree. 　http://www.flickr.com/photos/tinyhare/13963627/.	JH	1	ツイ、スイ	つち、う.つ	
1968	palisade	Sách	柵	palisade, tree, wood, tome	9	48	Tree . . . tome.		"A palisade is a ""fence of stakes especially for defense,"" usually the stakes are very strong, set closely together, and pointed on top. Tome can be seen as a pictograph of several close-set wooden stakes, braced by one horizontal bar."	An army of scholars build a wooden palisade to protect their precious tome of literature.	JH		サク、サン	しがら.む、しがらみ、とりで、やらい	
310	roast	Tiên (Nấu, sắc, chất nước đem đun cho đặc gọi là tiên)	煎	roast, in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue	13	13	Think of roasting the guest of honor at a party - literally, in front of an oven-fire.		In many asian restaurants, meat is roasted right in front of you over flames.	At the roast, they make the roastee sit in front of everyone else, over the flames to speak, as the comedians roast him a new one!	JH		セン	せん.じる、い.る、に.る	煎る (い.る)
1528	marine blue	Lưu	瑠	marine blue, king, jewel, ball, detain, receipt, dagger, sword, rice field, brains	14	37	Jewel . . . detain.		“The king has been detained by some marines!” “How do you know they were marines?” “Because they were wearing marine blue.”.	The king was detained, by men in marine blue; Must be the marines, planning a coup. (thx Katsuo/gavmck).	JH	1	ル、リュウ		
1865	speckled	Ban	斑	speckled, king, jewel, ball, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, king2, jewel2, ball2	12	45	Ball . . . plaid . . . ball.		Speckled is a pattern, like plaid, but with lots of little balls all over the place.	The sentences exchanged between the two kings got more and more heated, finally leading to a fight which left the whole area speckled with blood.	JH		ハン	ふ、まだら	
731	tinker with	Lộng (can thiệp. sử dụng)	弄	tinker with, king, jewel, ball, two hands	7	23	Jewel . . . two hands.		The king used both hands to tinker with himself in his spare time.	Picture the king holding a large pan in his two hands and tinkering with it, wishing he could lead the itinerant life of a tinker. As a rhyme: The king, he uses his two hands, To tinker with his pots and pans . . .	JH		ロウ、ル	いじく.る、ろう.する、いじ.る、ひねく.る、たわむ.れる、もてあそ.ぶ	弄ぶ (もてあそ.ぶ)
276	toy	NGOẠN (Vờn, chơi. Dùa bỡn)	玩	toy, king, jewel, ball, beginning, two, human legs	8	12	If, at some aboriginal level, Toys Я Us, then the archetypal ball must have been there at the beginning, before evolving into beach balls, ping-pong balls, rugby balls, and marbles.		The ball was the only thing that people at the beginning of time had to use as a toy. Poor cavemen.	And so it was, the ball marked the beginning of all the toys that were to come.	JH		ガン	もちあそ.ぶ、もてあそ.ぶ	
2069	apprehensive	Điền	畏	apprehensive, rice field, brains, hairpin, safety-pin	9	52	Field . . . hairpin.		The man being tortured was apprehensive as he saw his tormentor approaching with a hairpin poised to pierce his brain!	"I ran out of Q-tips...then I noticed a hairpin lying on the counter that was about the same size as a Q-tip. I was apprehensive at first, but I thought ""what the hell"". Unfortunately I ended up stabbing my brain!"	JH		イ	おそ.れる、かしこ.まる、かしこ、かしこ.し	畏れる (おそ.れる)
1818	lose weight	Sấu	痩	lose weight, sickness, hospital, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch	12	44	Sickness . . . monkey . . . crotch.		The sickness that only allows you to eat monkey crotch will surely make you lose weight.	The most horrific way to lose weight is from that devastating sickness that came from a monkey's crotch.	JH		ソウ、チュウ、シュウ、シュ	や.せる	痩せる (や.せる)
1822	scar	Ngân	痕	scar, sickness, hospital, silver	11	44	Sickness . . . silver.		I suffer from silver-sickness, that is, if anything made of silver even touches my skin it leaves a scar.	I got sick and needed surgery, but the silver lining is that now I have these awesome scars I can show off!	JH		コン	あと	痕 (あと)
1843	obvious	Liệu (Mắt sáng, mắt trong sáng sủa.)	瞭	obvious, eye, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little	17	44	Eye . . . pup tent.		I paint a huge eye on the side of my pup tent. Why? – It’s obvious: when I’m at the camping site it makes it obvious which tent is mine so I can quickly locate it.	Open your eyes, it's obvious that not all of us can fit into that small puptent!	JH	1	リョウ	あきらか	
2045	eyebrow	Mi	眉	eyebrow, flag, stick, eye	9	51	The flag here has an extra vertical stroke in it. Think of it as an eyebrow pencil stuck in the eye.		The eyebrows hover over the eyes like a divided flag.	Pictograph: opera glasses over eyes ビ ミ まゆ.	JH	1	ビ、ミ	まゆ	眉 (まゆ)
1420	cavern	Quật (cái hốc)	窟	cavern, hole, house, human legs, yield, flag, exit	13	35	Hole . . . yield.		After Osama blew a hole in NY, the counterreaction forced him to yield and retreat into caverns.	"In ""The Empire Strikes Back"", the Milennium Falcon flies into a large hole, of what they think is a cavern, because they don´t want to yield to the forces of the Empire. Turns out it´s not a cavern at all, actually..."	JH		クツ、コツ	いわや、いはや、あな	
1145	hem	Cư (vạt áo)	裾	hem, cloak, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth	13	29	Cloak . . . reside.		Something is residing in the hem of your cloak. Maybe you should consider cleaning it? キョ コ すそ cuff; hem; foot of mountain.	If you reside in the slums, you start off as a small child with a very large cloak. As you grow it gets hemmed. The rich kids just get new cloaks.	JH		キョ、コ	すそ	裾 (すそ)
1022	basket	Lung (giữ lại, tách biệt, cái giỏ)	篭・籠	cage, bamboo, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day	16	26	Bamboo . . . dragon. Note that the older (and still official) form of this kanji uses the old character for dragon 龍, which is good to learn and is fun to write in any case. It is made up of five primitive elements: vase . . . flesh . . . slingshot . . . fishhook (enclosure) . . . three.		The only cage that can keep a dragon is made of bamboo.	A bamboo cage won´t hold a dragon!	JH		ロウ、ル	かご、こ.める、こも.る、こ.む	
1348	chopsticks	Trứ, trợ	箸	chopsticks, bamboo, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day	14	34	Bamboo . . . puppet.		Bamboo, lovedoll: At dinner, my lovedoll decided to eat her meal the Japanese way using chopsticks. But well, what a problems she had getting those bamboo shoots into her mouth (which should not be that difficult, I would say!).	I´ve always wanted to use bamboo chopsticks to eat sushi off a naked woman. Unfortunately, there is no woman in my life, so this love doll will have to do.	JH		チョ、チャク	はし	箸 (はし)
1439	come apart at the seams	Trán	綻	come apart at the seams, thread, spiderman, determine, determined, house, mend	14	36	Thread . . . determine.		Even though his costume is coming apart at the seams as he chases the bad guys, Spiderman is still determined to catch them.	Spiderman´s costume has come apart at the seams and here he is, mending it in his house, determined to make it stronger than before.	JH		タン	ほころ.びる	
2015	gunwale	Huyền (mạn thuyền)	舷	gunwale, boat, mysterious, top hat, cocoon	11	50	Boat . . . mysterious.		The gunwale is perhaps the most mysterious part of a boat for it is neither a gun nor a whale.	"Gunwale (rhymes with ""tunnel"") is the top edge of the side of a boat, for example the widened lip on the sides of a canoe. The mysterious origin of this part of a boat comes from the strengthened sides of warships that used artillery (it means ""gun ridge"")."	JH		ゲン	ふなべい、ふなばた	
1684	bee	Phong	蜂	bee, insect, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes	13	40	Insect . . . walking legs . . . bushes.		A bee is an insect with a pointy (see summit (#1562)) stinger.	The insect that interrupted our tryst (#2417) was a bee!	JH		ホウ	はち	蜂 (はち)
2143	insult	MẠ	罵	insult, eye, cross-eyed, net, team of horses	15	54	Eyeball . . . team of horses.		In ancient Japan, the most grievous insult was to poke a rival´s horse in the eye (consider how rare an expensive a steed was in those days). It was the final step in preparation for a duel to the death.	In Japan, is is considered insulting to look at someone from atop your horse. You have to step down and face people properly.	JH		バ	ののし.る	罵る (ののし.る)
1938	accept humbly	Đái	戴	accept humbly, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight	17	47	Thanksgiving . . . uncommon.		At Thanksgiving, it’s uncommon for people to accept humbly the food: most people just dig in.	You´re invited to a Thanksgiving party in Japan! Awesome! You´re so happy that your Japanese friends are trying to make you feel at home (you´ve been homesick recently). You sit down to the table, and they bring out some..uh...uncommon food. Really uncommon. Like just imagine the most uncommon Thanksgiving food ever, and that´s what you´re given (i don´t know, a frisbee or something?). Of course, you have to be Japanese and accept humbly their food.	JH		タイ	いただ.く	
994	riddle	Mê (câu đố)	謎	riddle, say, words, keitai, mouth, astray, rice, road	16	26	Words . . . astray.		Words meant to lead you astray are those of a riddle.	I led Socrates astray with my riddle. He quit philosophizing and thought only about the riddle.	JH		メイ、ベイ	なぞ	謎 (なぞ)
598	who	Thuỳ (ai)	誰	who?, who, say, words, keitai, mouth, turkey	15	21	Words . . . turkey.		"Do you remember that song where they say ""Who let the turkeys out!? Gobble.. gobble.. gobble""?"	"[who; someone; somebody] You´re alone when, suddenly, you think you hear someone speaking. ""Who´s there?"", you say, but there is no answer. Then you find out it was only a turkey gobbling. You feel relieved (and ashamed to tell this story). (Based on raulir)."	JH		スイ	だれ、たれ、た	誰 (だれ)
495	visit a shrine	NGHỆ (Đến, đến thẳng tận nơi gọi là nghệ. Cái cõi đã tới.)	詣	visit a shrine, say, words, keitai, mouth, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day	13	18	"Here you ""savor your words"" as something delicious when you describe your recent visit to a shrine or pilgrimage site."		You visit a shrine to say your wishes and offer delicious offering to the gods.	"To fat, effete Japanophiles (cheerily munching on 肉まん in the back of the tour bus) hearing the words of the tour guide ""Now we will visit a shrine"" elicits squeals of joy. ""Oooooh, how absolutely delicious!""."	JH		ケイ、ゲイ	けい.する、まい.る、いた.る、もう.でる	詣でる (もう.でる)
467	renunciation	ĐẾ, ĐỀ (Xét kỹ, rõ)	諦	give up, say, words, keitai, mouth, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel	16	18	"The key word renunciation has to do with the wisdom and clarity of mind in knowing when to ""let go."" This is what makes the words of acquiescense sovern."		The words of the sovereign king inspire the people: never give up! Never surrender! Okay...maybe it wasn´t a king.	Anytime I think to give up Japanese, I remember giving my word that I would become sovereign of Japanese! And I watch あきら to get pumped about it. Note: to give up - 諦める is read あきらめる).	JH		テイ、タイ	あき.らめる、あきら.める、つまびらか、まこと	諦める (あきら.める)
360	elucidate	Thuyên (Đủ, giải thích kỹ càng, nói đủ cả sự lẽ)	詮	elucidate, say, words, keitai, mouth, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball	13	15	Think of elucidating as presenting something in whole words, as distinct from broken fragmented sentences.		Words that tell you the results of the whole story really elucidate.	Elucidate me. Tell me, in your own words, the whole story.	JH		セン	せん.ずる、かい、あき.らか	
2125	countenance	MẠO	貌	countenance, skunk, badger, white, dove, human legs	14	53	Skunk . . . white . . . human legs.		The shocked countenance on girl's face when Pepe started to hump her white legs.	Anyone who watched a looney tunes cartoon know those kind of scene : pepe embraces a poor kitty mistaken for a SKUNK and the smell of pepe make the unfortunate girl loose all countenance : she turns WHITE then runs as fast as her LEGS can carry her . So much for cat s dignity and countenance.	JH		ボウ、バク	かたち、かたどる	
60	post a bill	THIẾP (Dán, để đó. Như yết thiếp: dán cái giấy yết thị.)	貼	affix, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth	12	4	The key word in this frame has do with posting bills to a billboard. In this case, the billboard is standing at the exit to a Chinese restaurant displaying the latest alternative to the tradition fortune-telling cookies. Look closely and you will see rows of leftover shells of clams with little slips of paper sticking out of them posted to the billboard.			I gots a fix for your current bad luck: just pass some extra clams over to the fortune teller, and they will make sure you have a very bright fate instore.	Fortune teller writes your fortune on a piece of paper and tells you to affix it to a shell and throw into the ocean for it to come true. Picture licking the back of the shell like a stamp and affixing it to the fortune.		テン、チョウ	は.る、つ.く	貼る (は.る)
313	graft	Lộ (Đem của đút lót gọi là lộ. Như hối lộ)	賂	graft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, each, walking legs, mouth	13	14	To those who believe in the inevitability of graft in government, everything has a price - or as this character has it, to each office its outlay of shells.		It might sound simple to bribe someone, but then you have to graft the guy above him and the guy below him, and soon you´re just giving shells to each and everyone!	When I was caught by the police doing some graft (graffiti), I gave each cop some clams and told them to be on their way. 賄賂【わいろ】 bribe.	JH		ロ	まいな.い、まいな.う	
2122	kick	XÚC	蹴	kick, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, mouth2	19	53	Wooden leg . . . concerning.		The soccer player was concerned that his peg leg would affect his ability to kick.	I kick with my FEET in the CAPITAL of all the ONE LEGGED CHIHUAHUAS. It is such a great fun, since they cannot kick me back! lol.	JH		シュク、シュウ	け.る	蹴る (け.る)
1537	hooch	Dậu	酎	hooch, whiskey bottle, glue	10	38	This kanji is used for thick, low-grade saké made from various kinds of grains. Its primitives are: whisky bottle . . . glue.		"While the keyword is ""hooch"", this usually means 焼酎. It has similar effect as whiskey and sniffing glue has: you get intoxicated."	This thick, illicitly-made beverage is actually just whiskey mixed with glue!	JH		チュウ、チュ	かも.す	
1677	awakening	Tỉnh	醒	awakening, whiskey bottle, star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up	16	40	Whisky bottle . . . star.		On awakening the first thing I notice is a (nearly empty) whiskey bottle by my bed. Then I see the stars are still shining. “I think I’ll go back to sleep and try awakening again later.”.	You´ll need an awakening after the whiskey bottle makes you see stars.	JH		セイ	さ.ます、さ.める	
2040	noodles	Miến	麺	noodles, barley, grow up, walking legs, mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye	16	51	Barley . . . mask.		There is a certain restaurant in West-Shinjuku that serves its noodles made of BARLEY in a MASK instead of a plate. I love these theme-restaurants!	+sgrant: I always eat barley noodles with a mask on - it stops them splashing in your face. However it bareley helps. Also everyone else grows up from his table and uses his walking legs to get the hell out of here.	JH		メン、ベン	むぎこ	
1388	pot	Oa	鍋	pot, metal, gold, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth	17	34	Metal . . . jawbone.		A gruesome kind of cauldron that Snape might have used is a metal pot in the shape of a skull.	A metall pot with non-thermoconductive jawbones as handholds.	JH		カ	なべ	鍋 (なべ)
418	key	Kiện (cái khoá)	鍵	key, metal, gold, build, brush, stretch	17	17	The golden key you have been presented by the mayor gives you access to all the buildings in the city.		The metal thing you need in order to enter things you build is a key.	鍵盤key (#2761) ケン, かぎ ... Parts: 金, 建 ... Story: The most important Metal in any building is the lock on the front door, and without a key you ain´t getting in. This kanji means both lock and key to most Japanese people. 錠前 is technically the word for lock but it´s not used in daily conversation. ... 熟語: ... cf: 錠前.	JH		ケン	かぎ	鍵 (かぎ)
1748	pitch dark	Ám	闇	pitch dark, gates, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day	17	42	Gates . . . sound.		Through the gates of hell there is no sound, no light, its all pitch dark.	I like to think of a horror movie where the protagonists enter a graveyard when suddenly their flashlights go out and it becomes pitch dark, whereupon they hear the sound of the gate creaking shut behind them.	JH		アン、オン	やみ、くら.い	闇 (やみ)
1610	immediate	Đốn (đột nhiên)	頓	immediate, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	13	39	Earthworm . . . head.		Ever chopped the head off an earthworm? Notice how it will grow back immediately! Beware the killer earthworms...	When someone in the barracks tells you to come immediately, you´ll lose your head for sure トン トツ にわか.に とん.と つまず.く とみ.に ぬかずく suddenly; immediately; in a hurry.	JH		トン、トツ	にわか.に、とん.と、つまず.く、とみ.に、ぬかずく	
479	about that time	KHOẢNH	頃	about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	11	18	When Uncle Bob starts his comic routine of sticking spoons on his head, you know it is about that time to come up with a reason to excuse yourself.		An alarm clock with a unique design: You set it for, say, 7:00 am, and at about that time the clock reaches out with a spoon and hits you on the head.	After spooning for hours it´s about that time he got some head. Dayum woman.	JH		ケイ、キョウ	ころ、ごろ、しばら.く	頃 (ころ)
1358	cheek	Giáp	頬・頰	cheek, scissors, husband, horns, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight	15	34	Scissors . . . head.		"Your cheeks contain your jawbones, which are known as the ""scissors of the head.""."	The Joker from Batman had his cheeks cut with scissors to give him that eternal smile. Now the Joker isn´t right in the head.	JH		キョウ	ほお、ほほ	頬 (ほお)
1333	chin	Ngạc	顎	chin, mousetrap, mouth, one, ceiling, snare, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, mouth2, one2	18	33	Two mouths . . . ceiling . . . snare . . . head.		Your chin is the part of your head under your nostrils that forms the double snare that is your jaw.	Left side is crocodile primative. crocodile´s head´s most prominent feature is his jaw.	JH		ガク	あご、あぎと	顎 (あご)
1588	feed	Nhị	餌	feed, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ear	14	38	Food . . . ear. The sense of the key word here is that of bait or feed for animals.		Food made of ears is animal feed.	Do you know Mike Tayson favorite feed? Ears! He eats ears!	JH		ジ、ニ	え、えば、えさ、もち	餌 (ええさ)
1590	mochi	Bính	餅	mochi, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, puzzle, horns, two hands	14	38	Mochi is the glutinous rice the Japanese pound into cakes. Its primitives are: food . . . puzzle.		"Call your friend and he answers the phone ""Mochi, mochi!"" whatever he is eating sure is making it hard to understand. I will puzzle over the content of our conversation for some time to come."	Mochi ice cream is a puzzling food, I still have no idea how they get that ice cream in there, but it sure tastes good.	JH		ヘイ、ヒョウ	もち、もちい	餅 (もち)
2155	foot of a mountain	LỘC	麓	foot of a mountain, grove, tree, wood, deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2	19	54	Grove . . . deer.		Many deer can be found in the grove at the foot of a mountain.	Deer are well known for frolicking in groves of trees. However, they are not well known for actually watching where the heck they are bounding about. Here we have a bunch of dead deer bodies that you find at the foot of a mountain. You are trying to figure why there are so many dead deer in one spot, and then you trace a line up the mountain - leaves and such are scattered all the way up...to a grove. Looks like they hopped through some leaves to their doom.	JH		ロク	ふもと	麓 (ふもと)
322	Hades	Minh (Chỗ mù mịt không có ánh sáng. Tục cho là chỗ người chết ở.)	冥	hades, crown, sun, day, six	10	14	"The key word in this frame refers to the underworld, the world of the dead. By way of the classic Greek association, it is also used for the ""dwarf planet"" Pluto. Since no one knows precisely when this part of the cosmos was finished, we may imagine it as the crowning deed of day six of the creation."		The beast of hades one day will wear a crown, and the number of the beast is 666.	In Hades you have to work six days a week before crowning it with something vaguely resembling a weekend. Oh wait, that´s Japan.	JH		メイ、ミョウ	くら.い	
1101	sprain	Toả (đổ vỡ, thất bại)	挫	sprain, finger, fingers, sitting in meditation, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2	10	27	Fingers . . . assembly line . . . soil.		I sprained my fingers when I sat in meditation (by sitting in a strange position).	I sprained in my finger doing a complicated mudra while sitting in meditation.	JH		ザ、サ	くじ.く、くじ.ける	
2111	go upstream	TỐ	遡	go upstream, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road	13	53	Mountain goat . . . moon . . . road.		You decide to go salmon fishing, so you ride a mountain goat to the top of the road. Under the light of the moon, as it's illegal, you catch the salmon going upstream.	In this kanji we see a mountain goat that decided to go upstream along a road, but for some reason it will only go upstream when the full moon is up. It's actually stubborn like a mountain goat about not going upstream along the road at any other period of time. The road itself is also very confused about this.	JH		ソ、サク	さかのぼ.る	遡る (さかのぼ.る)
1608	bracing	Sảng (sảng khoái)	爽	bracing, large, St. Bernard, sheaf, sheaf4	11	39	The sense of the key word is of something refreshing and invigorating. It is made up of the St. Bernard and a pair of sheaves on each side.		The St Bernard is bracing itself for an operation requiring four stitches.	St. Bernard dog had a refreshing bracing bath and now is shaking all the water out of his fur. The drops are thrown in all direction and that's why the have an x shape in the pictogram.	JH	1	ソウ	あき.らか、さわ.やか、たがう	爽やか (さわ.やか)
930	uprising	Bột (nổi lên thình lình, đột ngột)	勃	erection, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, child, power, muscle, arnold	9	25	"If you think of the ten as a little ""cross"" sitting atop the root of a house where we are used to seeing the ""chimney"" (drop), then you have the image of a chapel. (This combination will appear once more in this book: Frame 1465.) To complete the picture for uprising, add: child . . . muscles."		An erection can shoot like a needle from its crown and has the power to make a child.	The erection is the crowned needle that´s got the power to make children.	JH		ボツ、ホツ	おこ.る、にわかに	
1641	remains	Hài (thi hài, hài cốt)	骸	remains, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat	16	39	Skeleton . . . acorn.		The remains consisted of a skeleton which had the remains of some acorns in its stomach area. Whether it died from eating the acorns remains to be seen.	Hint: The remains of a chipmunk.	JH		ガイ、カイ	むくろ	
385	relatives	Thích (thân thích)	戚	relatives, half-uncle, above, small, little, parade	11	17	If you think of a parade of particularly disagreeable relatives, it should not be hard to imagine them as large bodies with little pea-brains above.		"Your half-uncle is leading a parade of your relatives. (Note: 上 + 小 makes up part of ""uncle"" 叔, so I´ve called it ""half-uncle"".)."	Your uncle organizes a parade of all your relatives, which he himself is only half in because he´s busy taking pictures of it.	JH		ソク、セキ	いた.む、うれ.える、みうち	
1947	donburi	Tỉnh (bát sứ)	丼	domburi, well, drop	5	48	Donburi is a bowl of rice with eel or meat on it. The character is a pictograph, perhaps designed by someone who felt that the portion of meat he was served with his bowl of rice looked to be no more than a tiny drop in the well.		A little one is eating a domburi while standing over, looking down into, a WELL. He drops it, and it falls down & down until it looks like nothing more than a DROP, landing at the bottom of the well!	I drop a domburi down into the well for the goblin living there.	JH		トン、タン、ショウ、セイ	どんぶり	丼 (どんぶりどん)
1483	capital suburbs	Kỳ	畿	capital suburbs, cocoon, rice field, brains, fiesta, cocoon2	15	36	Two cocoons . . . field . . . fiesta.		People aside, I wonder how many rice fields there are in the capital suburbs.	How many brains does it take to run the capital suburbs?	JH		キ	みやこ	
1290	fist	Quyền	拳	fist, quarter, hand	10	32	Quarter . . . hand. Be careful to keep this key word distinct from the primitive element of the same meaning we met back in Frame 741.		1) I hold a roll of quarters in my hand when I make a fist. 2) I hold a quarter in my hand as I prepare to play the Iron Fist Tournament: 鉄拳 （てっけん） at the arcade.	Quarter, hand: If you have a roll of quarters in your hand, your fist will deliver a much more effective punch.	JH	1	ケン、ゲン	こぶし	拳 (こぶし)
1360	large hill	Phụ	阜	large hill, maestro, ten, needle	8	34	Maestro . . . needle.		The maestro lives on top of a large hill so that he can play music at over ten decibels without anyone giving a damn.	Note to those who have not got this far in the book: This is the full kanji for the Pinnacle primitive (i.e. only the left-hand version of the primitive). The full kanji for the City Walls primitive is city walls (#2180). Beyonce went for an invigorating walk up a large hill on a summer´s afternoon. Since the grass was so lush and cool, she took off her sandals and immediately stepped on a used hypodermic needle. 岐阜県　ぎふけん Gifu Prefecture.	JH		フ、フウ		
1992	interrogative	Na	那	interrogative, sword, dagger, two, city walls	7	49	Sword . . . two . . . city walls. Used classically to indicate an interrogative part of speech, this character is used chiefly now for its sound.		If you arrive with two swords at the city walls, expect some interrogatives before they´ll let you in.	"Interrogation at the city walls: ""Any weapons, question mark."" ""Just a blade."" ""Why the two scratches on the blade, question mark."" ""To remind me that I cut off my other ear too, exclamation mark (exclamation (#2680)).""."	JH	1	ナ、ダ	なに、なんぞ、いかん	
1011	stationery	Tiên (báo, giấy)	箋・䇳	stationery, bamboo, float, fiesta, float*, fiesta2	12	26	Bamboo . . . float. Note that the drawing of the primitive for float uses the abbreviated form that has become standard in the general-use kanji and as we met it earlier (Frames 393-95). Until such time as typesetting fonts make the adjustment, only the older form has been approved. Here we have opted for the simpler, avant garde drawing.		Note: the spelling should be stationery (= paper, office supplies), not stationary (= not moving). The error is in the original book.	The two fiestas communicated to each other on their respective floats by using bamboo stationery.	JH		セン	ふだ	
1237	glossary	Vị, Vựng	彙	glossary, broken broom, mutual, crown, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood, broom*	13	31	The top primitive of this character is actually an old form of broom. The remaining elements are: crown . . . fruit.		People who read the glossary are mutually exclusive (exclude the top line of mutually (#757) ) from those who eat crowned fruit イ はりねずみ same kind 語彙.	"I was having mutual difficulties in my relationship. She was always the one wearing the crown and I was the one picking the fruit. In order to fix the problem I checked the glossary for ""mutual difficulties"" but found nothing. I guess we´re going to have to mutually end our relationship."	JH		イ	はりねずみ	
129	sniff	KHỨU (khứu giác)	嗅		12	7	You have seen those scratch'n'sniff advertisements for perfumes. This one is for a mouthwash that replaces one stinking oder with another.		Your mouth stinks: you need to sniff your breath.	You open your mouth and gasp for air, 1 sniff of that stinking chihuahua is too much. *Edited thecite's to reflect the keyword in the supplement.	JH		キュウ	か.ぐ	
308	metaphor	Dụ	喩・喻		12	13	People who try to sound literary often end up butchering the language. Here we see a meeting of butchers whose mouths are producing the metaphors.		Metaphorically speaking, all the equipment in your mouth is basically just a meeting of butchers, designed to pulverize whatever meat you put in there.	Metaphor: A good metaphor flows from the mouth like the meeting of flesh and saber, smoothly piercing the listener with its meaning. But a bad metaphor is like when you barely nick the flesh and only spill two drops of blood or when your saber doesn't penetrate at all but rather bends into a くく shape when you whack the flesh. (Note: This story incorporates both the traditional form of the kanji (口＋兪) and the simplified form (口＋俞)) .	JH		ユ	さと.す、 たと.える	
363	obituary	Phó (Báo tin có tang. Ta gọi là cáo phó.)	訃		9	15	The words of this obituary work like a magic wand, conjuring up the desceased.		In the Harry Potter world, obituary's are magical. If you wave your wand over them you can hear the person's last words. Creepy!	Obituary. As a famous man lay dying, the media were already preparing the words of his obituary until a magician, with a wave of his wand, restored the man back to health.	JH		フ	しらせ	
485	block letters	GIAI	楷		13	18	The key word refers to kanji that are written in full, squared form, as opposed to cursive writing which is more flowing andabbreviates some of the strokes. Here block letters are pictured as tidy rows of trees that are all the same size and can be read easily by all, whatever calligraphic skills they possess.		Block letters (as opposed to cursive) are rigid and lifeless like wood; they're all the same size so that all can read them.	"all the hiragana are in ""block letters"" on wooden blocks, like children's toys."	JH		カイ		
486	orderliness	HÀI	諧		16	18	"The harmoney of ""a place for everything and everything in its place"" is applied here to the orderliness of all the words one speaks."		To have orderliness, your words must be in all the right places.	起立(きりつ)！ Hearing these words, all the students immediately stand at attention. The orderliness of classes in Japan is incredible.	JH		カイ	かな.う、 やわ.らぐ	
623	weld	Cố (hàn)	錮		16	22	Metal . . . harden.		You weld metal in the knowledge that it will harden again.	By welding metal and then subjecting it to refrigeration, it will become very hard by the process known as annealing.	JH		コ	ふさ.ぐ	
641	selfish	Tư (ích kỷ, cố chấp, độc đoán)	恣		10	22	Second . . . heart.		A selfish person doesn't care about the next person's heart, only their own.	Selfish lover breaks your heart and moves on to the next lover. (And yawns with a heart of ice at your suffering).	JH		シ	ほしいまま	
680	disquieting	Cụ (sợ hãi)	惧		11	22	State of mind . . . tool.		My mind found the tool disquieting.	Its disquieting to my state of mind when tools are arranged messily.	JH		ク	おそ.れる	
682	hanker	Cảnh (thèm muốn, ao ước)	憬		15	22	State of mind . . . scenery.		My mind hankers for sunrise over the capital.	I'm in a state of mind where I hanker to see the sun over the capital for some nice scenery for a change (no more rain!)	JH		ケイ	あこが.れる	
696	yank	Lạp (lôi kéo vào, bẻ gãy)	拉		8	23	"The sense of this key word is to pull or jerk, as in opening a door or making ""ramen"" noodles. Its elements: fingers . . . vase."		He quickly yanked his fingers out of the vase. Maybe no one noticed the attempt to steal the cookies...	He yanked his finger out of the vase upon discovering it had a venus fly trap in it.	JH		ラ、 ラツ、 ロウ	くだ.く、 ひし.ぐ、 らっ.する	
1054	arrogance	Ngạo	傲		13	27	Person . . . soil . . . compass . . . taskmaster. You may, of course, take the character for emulate from the previous frame as the basis for this kanji, adding to it only the element for soil.		He showed his arrogance as he poured dirt on those who tried to emulate him.	Your arrogance has soiled your attempt to emulate such an honorable effort.	JH		ゴウ	あなど.る、 おご.る	
1382	trail	Tung	踪		15	34	Wooden leg . . . religion. The key word refers to a trail of footprints or tracks left behind.		A trail of destruction is left by pirates and religion invaders.	The followers of the crazy satanic religion are following the footprints of the escaped human sacrifices who fled from the altar.	JH		ショウ、 ソウ	あと	
1437	fine	Trí	緻		16	36	The key word should be taken to mean minute, detailed, or nuanced. Its primitive elements are: thread . . . doth.		This kanji shows Spiderman giving a dress of the finest thread to his girlfriend. Of course, the real purpose of the gift is to get his girlfriend to doth him.	fine: If the thread doth fit through the eye of the needle, it is fine thread indeed.	JH		チ	こまか.い	
1617	holed gem	Bích	璧		18	39	The holed gem to which this kanji refers is a flat, circular object of about a foot in length, made of stone or glass and having a large hole in the middle. It's elements: ketchup . . . ball.		This kanji shows a policeman with a holed gem (which can be thought of as jewelry, I guess), but he thinks it's a doughnut. For some reason though, he liked his doughnuts with ketchup on them, so he added some, and tried to take a bite. He lost a few teeth on the process.	It's a little known fact that ketchup is highly corrosive and is used to cut holes into gemstones so they can be put onto chains. This kanji shows a piece of Jade with a blob of ketchup on the top eating a hole through it.	JH		ヘキ	たま	
1624	clasp	Chí (thậm chí)	摯		15	39	Of the many and widely different meanings of this kanji, we select the verbal meaning of clasp, which fits in well with its primitive elements: tenacious . . . hand.		When you clasp something you tenaciously 執 hold on to it with your hand 手, te. 真摯、しんし, sincerity, earnestness.	This kanji shows Santa Claus (refer to frame tenacious (#1506)) clasping the reins of his deers with his hands, holding onto dear life as he almost falls off his carriage.	JH		シ	いた.る	
1713	covet	Tham	貪		11	41	Clock . . . shellfish.		One begins one's life coveting money. One ends one's life coveting time -- those precious seconds ticking away on the clock. Remember to always put time over money (in this kanji and in life).	Whatever you covet at the moment (now), can be bought with money. Well, _almost_ anything....	JH		タン、 トン	むさぼ.る	
1736	shudder	Lật	慄		13	41	State of mind . . . chestnut.		Shudder. If chestnut trees were sentient, shudder would be their state of mind as the tree shaker approaches. Note: Tree shakers are used commercially to harvest nuts and cider apples. A tree shaker makes a tree shudder causing all the ripe chestnuts to fall.	shudder: You’re in the state of mind of shuddering with fear when the chestnut tree is falling over towards you.	JH		リツ	おそ.れる、 おのの.く、 ふる.える	
1798	bitter	Lạt	辣		14	43	Spicy . . . bundle.		The bitter taste was so awful that I put whole bundle of spice in my mouth to get rid of it.	I'm rather bitter that someone stole my spice bundle.	JH		ラツ	から.い	
1817	carbuncle	Dương	瘍		14	44	Sickness . . . piggy bank.		His sickness caused numerous carbuncles, which when emptied by the doctors also emptied his piggy bank.	The witches piggy bank was cursed with a spell causing any thief who stole it's contents to fall ill. The illness would result in the victim being covered from head to toe in a mass of carbuncles. Crime doesn't pay!	JH		ヨウ	かさ	
1979	suckle	Bô	哺		10	49	Mouth . . . dog tag.		The extremely efficient (military veteran) wet-nurse keeps track of which infant has been SUCKLEd already by marking each MOUTH with a DOG-TAG. (Cf. 吸 (#744)).	suckle: this mother had heptuplets. Wow! But she had to put dog tags on the mouths of her babies to keep track of which ones had been suckled.	JH		ホ	はぐく.む、 ふく.む	
2120	gloom	ÚC	鬱		29	53	"Learning this character will take a little doing. Before we start, it is a good idea to keep the key word distinct from melancholy (Frame 663), with which it combines to create the psychological condition of depression (a metaphor based on the hollow or sinking of the material depression we met in Frame 1421). The picture of gloom begins with a small grove of trees, under which we see a crown made out of used tin cans. Next (the lower half of the kanji) we find a combination that appears only a few times in modern characters and only once in those treated in the volumes of Remembering the Kanji. It is composed of a shovel with a sheaf dotted with small drops on all sides. Think of it as a large scoop shovel attached to the front of a bulldozer, whose driver is singing: ♪ ""Bulldozing in the sheaves, bulldozing in the sheaves..."" ♪ The drops represent the chaff flying about as the sheaves are tossed about by the heavy machinery. There is someone sitting on the ground alongside, watching as the machinery makes its way around the neighboring farmland - and it's you, wearing your tin-can crown. You feel overwhelmed by the impending doom as the invasion of agro-business draws closer and closer to the grove, the only patch of woods that remains of what once was a vast forest. The whole scene represents a re-shaping of the natural environment that brings the heavy weight of gloom down upon you. A bit much, perhaps, but there are enough elements to allow for any number of other combinations."		"In the middle of the final GROVE you find a TIN CAN. There's a CROWN inside! You are very excited with this, but then someone appears behind you: ""Hey, gimme that kid!"" You look and it's WOLVERINE, with a SHOVEL on his back and all covered in 鹵 (#2879). ""I found that crown in the rocksalt mines over there, so hand it over!"" - You unwillingly hand him the crown and he goes away. Then you SIT ON THE FLOOR, feeling impotent, and the SHAPE of your face becomes all GLOOMY ☹ (完)."	The context of gloom here refers to an environmental disaster that humans make. The story begins at a GROVE with TIN CANS shaped like CROWNS which are really soda cans. They belonged to workers who bulldozes (or SHOVELS) lots and lots of SHEAVES with DROPS of its pieces. Afar, a boy is SITTING while watching the workers reSHAPING the environment. His face now has a very gloomy expression.	JH		ウツ	うっ.する、 しげ.る、 ふさ.ぐ	
2198	humiliate	TU	羞		11	56	Wool . . sign of the cow.		The sheep is ashamed of it's sheepish nature, and dons the sign of the cow as a disguise.	[+melchan] The sheep was humiliated by being branded with the sign of the cow (which is a major insult to anyone, even sheep) and tries to cover it up with it's wool.	JH		シュウ	すすめ.る、 はじ.る、 は.ずかしい	